Skin health is more than just about looking good; it’s about feeling good too. Conditions like eczema, pigmentation, and rosacea can be frustrating to deal with, but there are natural ways to balance them. One of the key ways to balance skin conditions is by focusing on skin health, gut health, and mental health. These three areas are closely interconnected, and addressing them all can help you achieve healthy, glowing skin. Skin Health To achieve healthy skin, it’s important to pay attention to what you put on it. Many skin conditions are aggravated by harsh chemicals and artificial fragrances found in skincare products and makeup, not to mention the many personal care items we all use. Instead, opt for 100% natural, organic products that are not only gentle on the skin but also offer key nutrients like vitamins, minerals and superfoods that are necessary to keep the skin microbiome in balance. You should also focus on hydrating your skin from the inside out. Drink plenty of filtered water (avoid tap water these days) throughout the day to keep your skin moisturized, and eat a diet rich in fruits and vegetables that are high in antioxidants, which can help protect your skin from damage.  Gut Health Your gut health plays a crucial role in the health of your skin. When your gut is unhealthy, it can lead to inflammation, which can exacerbate skin conditions like eczema, acne and rosacea. To improve your gut health, focus on eating a diet rich in probiotics and prebiotics. Probiotics are found in foods like sauerkraut and kimchi, and can help balance the bacteria in your gut. Or opt for a daily high-quality probiotic supplement. Prebiotics are found in foods like onions, garlic, and bananas and help feed the good bacteria in your gut.  Mental Health Stress can also impact your skin’s health. When you’re stressed, your body produces more cortisol, which can cause inflammation in your body and exacerbate skin conditions like eczema, acne and rosacea. To reduce stress, make time for self-care activities like meditation, yoga, or take a relaxing bath. Get out into nature and breathe. Breathing can instantly calm your nervous system. Getting enough sleep is also crucial for reducing stress and improving your skin’s health. Aim for 7-8 hours of sleep each night, and try to establish a bedtime routine that helps you wind down and relax. Put devices onto airplane mode if you can, or charge them in a different room as the frequencies can interrupt healthy sleep patterns.  In conclusion, achieving healthy skin involves more than just using the right skincare products. It involves taking care of your gut and mental health as well. By focusing on skin health, gut health, and mental health, you can balance skin conditions like eczema, pigmentation, acne and rosacea naturally and achieve healthy, glowing skin every day. Article supplied by Nicole Sherwin, founder of Eco Diva Natural