POLOKWANE – Every morning Jacaranda 94.2 FM listeners wake up to the sound of Martin Bester’s voice and the #MorningFamilyQuiz has become a favourite among listeners. Last week, listeners from Polokwane got a taste of home when five local schools graced the airwaves via Jacaranda FM’s satellite studio at Mall of the North. Technical High School Tom Naudé, Curro Heuwelkruin, PEPPS, Mitchell House and Eagles Nest Christian School competed against each other in the #MorningFamilyQuiz and Review spoke to the schools to find out how teams were picked Tom Naudé  Audio supplied by Jacaranda FM Tommies joined the Breakfast Show first on Monday, February 27 and were challenged by Hoërskool Bergvlam. Tristan Myburgh, Katlego Moloto, Zonika Britz, Pieter Britz and Johan Bosch represented the school and their teacher Beatrix Nieuwoudt said they enjoyed the experience. The Tommies could have answered five questions in their allocated 30 seconds but Martin Bester told them a bad line was against them. Tommies nominated Curro Heuwelkruin. Curro Heuwelkruin  Audio supplied by Jacaranda FM Kruinies were next up and managed to answer seven questions in their 30 seconds. Their team included CJ Smith, Lethabo Leputu, Xivu Maswanganyi and Miguel Pereira. “We could only prepare for some of the questions, like why our school is amazing and what we look forward to. The general questions were unprepared,” says Nelmari Herbst, marketer at Heuwelkruin. Herbst added that the learners enjoyed the experience even though their nerves were rock bottom. “We decided to donate money to Good Morning Angels and then challenged Mitchell House College as it is also a private school,” she said. Mitchell House College  Audio supplied by Jacaranda FM Just like Curro Heuwelkruin, Mitchell House also answered seven questions in 30 seconds. Their team included Mabetji Mankga, Nikiwe Nkonyani, Onalenna Mphahlele and Mu’aaz Mayet.  They said the experience was exhilarating. “Learners had to be at the studio at 06:00 on Wednesday morning (March 1). Not knowing which questions we were going to be asked was scary, but the team did their best. We could have had eight points if we answered the last question before the buzz, but we had an exciting time in studio,” says Achsah Phoshoko, marketing director at Mitchell House. “We decided to challenge PEPPS Polokwane to see if they can better the score,” she added. PEPPS  Audio supplied by Jacaranda FM Early on Thursday morning (March 2), Seja Masipa, Gift Ogwu, Mosa Rankwe and Khumo Matlala gathered in studio, ready to show off their general knowledge.  All four learners agree that the experience was nerve wrecking but fun and said they enjoyed the quiz and would love to do it again. Even though they were nervous they managed to answer five questions in 30 seconds and challenged Eagles Nest Christian School. Eagle’s Nest  Audio supplied by Jacaranda FM Eagle’s Nest were represented by Maze Shibambu, Vukona Chauke and Tashinga Dhlakama.  Chasing seven points for the win, the trio managed to answer six questions in 30 seconds. “It was a great experience as we were exposed to the live radio environment. It was quite daunting to know that thousands of people were listening to us. It is definitely an enjoyable experience and we would recommend it to all high school learners,” the boys told Review. Winners Curro Heuwelkruin and Mitchell House were victorious and will share R10 000 for their respective schools. 