Hyundai has recently confirmed that they will be releasing the next generation of their popular i10, i20, and i30 models. With the new generation of these models, Hyundai is aiming to push the boundaries even further and set new standards for the automotive industry. The i10, i20 and the i30 are among the company’s best-selling cars, and their latest iterations are expected to be even more impressive than their predecessors. In a recent interview, Hyundai’s European chief Micheal Cole confirmed that the automaker does not want to lose any customers and they will continue to build vehicles for the crucial market that is considered the backbone of the brand. “We don’t want to lose any customers, I don’t want to walk away from any customer group. So we have to think about those i10, i20 and i30 customers. What could the future with electrification look like for them? It doesn’t necessarily mean it’s going to be the Hyundai Kona or Hyundai Ioniq 5. We have to think about what could come sub-Kona.” The Hyundai i10, one of the most popular city cars on the roads, might receive a major overhaul for its next generation. The new model will most likely feature a sportier design, with sharper lines and more aggressive styling. To keep up with the competition, the interior might also be updated with new technology, including a larger infotainment system and more advanced safety features. The bigger i20 and i130 will also receive the same treatment, a more sophisticated exterior design with sleek lines and a more aerodynamic profile. The i30 will definitely look more athletic than the i20, and we are hoping to see a complete redesign of the next-gen i30. A more dynamic exterior design, with a lower and wider stance. The interior might be more spacious, with improved materials and an updated infotainment system. The new i30 might also feature advanced safety features, such as automatic emergency braking and adaptive cruise control. Hyundai plans to go fully electric by 2035, this will give the new models enough time to stretch their legs before a full plan of turning them to electric vehicles (EV) comes to play. Cole added that the next challenge was to evaluate smaller EVs. He said: “I believe there’s a market below the Kona and maybe even in more traditional body styles, such as hatchback. It’s in our thinking, rather than necessarily in our long-term plan now, but for the European market, we have to be thinking about that.” Hyundai is known for its commitment to quality and innovation and these new models might raise the bar for the automaker. With their updated designs, advanced technology, and enhanced safety features, the next generation of the i10, i20, and i30 are sure to be a hit with consumers around the world. Whether you’re looking for a city car, a hatchback, or a family car, Hyundai has something for everyone. Read the original story on CAR Magazine.