LIMPOPO – The high rate of crime at Muledane outside Thohoyandou is forcing residents to the extremes where they feel reporting such crimes takes time and they therefore resort to solving the crimes on their own. Residents claim there is no peace in the village, crime is skyrocketing during loadshedding, when the area is in the dark. Sought-after commodities for criminals, resident say, are copper pipes and electrical cables. As a result, many households are left with no electricity for extended periods. Over thirty families have fallen victim to this type of crime. You might also want to read: Trap leads to e-hailing drivers stripped naked and beaten in Polokwane On February 26, a man was caught stealing copper pipes at Block J Extension 1. The local was cornered by an angry mob and beaten to death before the police arrived. Two days later, yet another man was caught stealing at a house he had previously burgled. He was surrounded by community members who beat him to a pulp before handing him over to the police. An eyewitness told Capricorn Voice that residents are tired of crime taking place in their area daily. “Day in and day out we wake up to incidents of theft. In recent times we have had more than 30 incidents of cable and copper theft in the area. We now have to patrol the streets, but thugs monitor our movements and steal without any fear,” he said. He indicated that people are angry and have lost trust in law enforcement. “People are angry and you cannot blame them when they go to such extremes. What is quite disturbing is that in many instances, foreigners are blamed for crimes but in the two latest incidents local people are the culprits. We have since discovered that the copper and cables are sold to scrap metal dealers to finance drugs,” he added. Another resident who preferred to stay anonymous, said they have resorted to taking the law into their own hands as the justice system takes time while crime continues unabated. “This is the only language that criminals understand and we will leave no stone unturned in hunting those down who keep us awake at night because of their crimes,” he said. Vhembe SAPS acting spokesperson, Sergeant Vuledzani Dathi said it is alleged that the victim was suspected to be involved in the stealing of copper cables and taps around Shayandima Township, Muledane, and Maniini village. “The community mobilised and went out to look for him and he was found at Muledane. When the suspect arrived at the station he was taken to Tshilidzini Hospital where he passed away,” he confirmed. 