POLOKWANE – Imagine a laundry service that collects your laundry and returns it wherever you are. This is the gap in the market that Squeaky Clean takes advantage of. Koketšo Rakolota founded the business in September 2022 with a mission to bring convenience and to meet the exact needs of his clients. The 34-year-old from Serala View shared that he has always been an entrepreneur at heart and the thought of working for someone does not appeal to him. When he founded this business, he made the commitment to provide the best service, and invested in the necessary equipment he needed. You might also want to read: How to manage your laundry during loadshedding From there, he had to face the challenge of gaining clients. “It takes a lot for someone to trust you enough to give you their items to go away with and trust that you will return it at the end of the day. We had to ask our first few clients who took the risk to leave a positive review on our Facebook page to help us gain more clients,” he said. This strategy has worked because business has picked up and people are becoming more open to this service of convenience. Another thing that sets Squeaky Clean apart is that they offer a service where clients pay monthly, and Rakolota collects their laundry every week. This works well because the client is guaranteed clean laundry all through the month even when they are out of cash. Another challenge he faces is the comparison between what he charges, compared to others. “You can’t compare the two because they are completely different services. We make use of our own transport to collect the laundry, use our own machines, we use our own products and electricity. People must remember that all these factors have to be included,” he explained. He added that their service is worth it because they give client specific service and always aim to meet client requirements. “We have not had anyone complain, that is because we leave all your items squeaky clean. We take pride in the work that we do,” he added. 