LIMPOPO – A manhunt has been launched by the provincial police commissioner Lieutenant General Thembi Hadebe following a cash-in-transit (CIT) heist in Maupa village along the R81 on Saturday (March 4). The driver of the CIT vehicle was shot and wounded while a female motorist was seriously injured after she was caught in the crossfire between police and suspects. Police spokesperson Brigadier Motlafela Mojapelo said the CIT vehicle, with three occupants, was heading towards Giyani along the R81 when a group of suspects travelling in a white SUV bumped the van. “The driver of the CIT vehicle swerved and managed to avoid the collision and the SUV passed. Another group of suspects driving in a blue sedan used a similar method and managed to bump the cash van and the driver reduced speed. His crew jumped out to inspect the vehicle when the SUV emerged and opened fire on a bakkie transporting security officers,” his report read. The driver of the CIT vehicle then drove towards Maupa village but was accosted by a third group of suspects in a silver four-wheel drive vehicle who opened fire. “The security guards managed to escape and fled to the bushes but the suspects blew up the security vehicle with explosives, took an undisclosed amount of money and fled the scene in their getaway vehicle,’ he said. The blue sedan getaway vehicle was later found burnt along the R81 and the bakkie transporting security guards was recovered in a nearby village without the keys, which were later found in another vehicle robbed by the same suspects after the heist. A rifle belonging to the security guards was also found hidden in a yard. “The driver of the cash van was taken to hospital for medical treatment as well as a 36-year-old female driver who sustained a gunshot wound during crossfire of a shootout between the police and the suspects after they were cornered in Tzaneen,” Mojapelo said. He added that the suspects involved were allegedly speaking Zulu and XiTsonga. Hadebe has since ordered the establishment of a task team to track down the suspects behind the heist while a case of armed robbery, two counts of attempted murder and 14 counts of malicious damage to property were opened. “Fourteen houses were damaged due to the explosions. Anyone with information should urgently contact Lieutenant Colonel Richard Boshomane on 079 894 5501, Warrant Officer Phaladi Makola on 082 749 2233 or the crime stop number on 08600 10111,” Mojapelo said. 