MOKOPANE – The total number of suspects arrested for the murder of Mogalakwena Municipality Councilors, Valtyn Kekana and Ralph Kanyane in July 2019 now stands at eight. Limpopo police, this week, arrested three additional suspects in Mokopane and Naboomspuit. Victor “Tolly” Mashamaite (47), a former ANC regional secretary and Pastor Petros Mohlabisi (63) were arrested on Monday (March 6) after careful investigations were carried out by a team that was put together shortly after the murders were committed on Tuesday July 23, 2019. Read more: Two more arrested in Mokopane for murder of ANC members The suspects appeared on charges of murder and conspiracy to commit murder. They appeared before the Mokopane Magistrate’s Court and will remain in custody. Mashamaite will appear again on March 14. The defense argued that the manner in which the police arrested the two violated the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act in that they were not shown or given a copy of the warrant of arrest. The police provided a warrant of arrest. The court adjourned until March 14 in order for the appointment of another presiding officer who will then have to adjudicate on the issue of the validity of the warrant of arrest. A 48-year-old man was also arrested on Tuesday (March 7) and appeared on Wednesday (March 8) on two counts of murder and conspiracy to commit murder. You might also want to read: Mokopane shooting victims were ‘probing tender fraud’ Meanwhile, Steven Mohlala (28), the fifth suspect arrested appeared in the Mokerong Magistrate’s Court and was released on R5 000 bail. Mohlala faces five charges of conspiracy to commit murder, two charges of murder, illegal possession of a firearm and illegal possession of ammunition. His bail conditions include appearing and attending this matter until further notice, as well as having no communication with the state witnesses. The matter has been transferred to the High Court in Polokwane and will resume on March 10. Provincial police commissioner, Lt Gen Thembi Hadebe commended the team for their efforts and determination in pursuing any information provided on the matter to ensure that all suspects who played a role in these murders are brought to justice. Police investigations are continuing. Mogalakwena concerned and affected community representative, Baba Selomo said they have picketed since the first arrest. “Mogalakwena has a history of political killings without arrests. So we are here hoping that the arrests will lead to revealing the truth about the political killings.” 