The automotive space as we know it today is the product of decades of competition between hundreds of aspirational monikers who have long since relied on the power and grunt of a vehicle to determine its position in the automotive pecking order. Here are the top five most powerful bakkies available in the South African market right now! The gravel road king. An icon among local bakkie offerings and arguably the segment’s front-runner. Ford’s Ranger Raptor returns in a new generational guise punctuated by C-clamp headlights and a more intimidating appearance. The three-litre twin-turbocharged V6 EcoBoost petrol engine produces a whopping 292kW @ 5 650r/min and 583Nm @ 3 500r/min. The sonorous power plant is fixed to Ford’s Electronic 10-speed automatic transmission. Read CAR Magazine’s full review after a Namibian excursion with the Blue Oval’s Dune Decimator! Jeep converted its popular SUV into a rugged bakkie powered by the firm’s Pentastar three-litre V6 capable of a power output of 209kW and 347Nm. The Gladiator’s heart is paired with an eight-speed automatic transmission that Jeep claims delivers shorter shifting times, greater performance and maximum efficiency. Although equipped with an engine that has the most displacement in this top five listicle, the Gladiator’s towing capacity is rated only for 2 721kg while lesser power ladened competitors, like the Hilux, are capable of 3 500kg. Ford has introduced a new generation of its Ranger nameplate. The exterior of the new ranger is punctuated by elements such as the C-clamp headlights shared with that of the Raptor. The range-topping Ranger model is afforded a power output of 184kW and 600Nm equalling the power output of the 2023 Amarok range-topper. Volkswagen’s latest bakkie offering expands the nameplates horizon through a next-gen platform and offers. The range-topper in the Amarok fleet is powered by a three-litre turbo-diesel V6 capable of 184kW and 600Nm. Identical outputs to its aforementioned Ranger twin, this after Ford and Volkswagen came to an agreement to produce the models on the same assembly line in Silverton. A standout among the ‘rough and rugged’ bakkie collective, Toyota’s Land Cruiser 79 is as tough as they come. Modern renditions see the integration of infotainment screens and a softer interior while the exterior retains Toyota’s signature farmland workhorse styling. Motivating the distinct-looking off-roader is a hearty four-litre V6 power plant capable of a maximum output of 170kW and 360Nm. Read the original story on CAR Magazine.