POLOKWANE – Leshole Maepa, better known by his stage name ‘Kizzy Black Soul’ is a familiar face in the CBD who pushes trolleys as a means to establish his business ideas. The 26-year-old is a musician and event planner whose side hustle rests on the hopes of one day fulfilling his entrepreneurial dreams. Leshole explains that he completed high school in 2014 and attended college to study counseling in 2016 before enrolling at the Tshwane University of Technology to pursue an entrepreneurial degree in 2017. “My struggle began after completing my entrepreneurship diploma so I decided to push trolleys in Polokwane and do any type of work that comes my way to at least make a living instead of staying at home unemployed because I was no longer coping with that,” he told the Review-Observer. You might also want to read: Stan’s business promotes progress and self-sustainability Maepa’s day-to-day hustle starts off like any other working person. He uses a bus to go to town but before that, he plans out how to reach his customers by posting on his social media in the morning. “I use social media to advertise and promote my business as well as word of mouth for people to book my trolleys when they come to town. The reason I advertise on social media is because my target market is found there and seeing that I am always online to respond to bookings, my job is made easier,” he said. Leshole said his job has taught him many lessons that he hopes to take with him into his next adventure. “Pushing trolleys has taught me patience and tolerance. It is not easy to work with people but I have learnt to humble myself in every situation. Each day is different and I complain about what I make at the end of the day.” Leshole said he dislikes the perception people have of trolley pushers as he said he is often treated like a criminal, but that its only because people have had bad experiences before. He adds that he is interested in running a businesses and that he already has plans to open a tuckshop and to start an entertainment company and charity foundation. Leshole can be contacted on 064 707 9871, via WhatsApp (079 538 4136) or on social media (@kizzyBlacksoul on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and TikTok). 