POLOKWANE – The Polokwane Municipality says appointed contractors will be on site at both the Polokwane and Seshego Wastewater Treatment works this week to deal with continued raw sewage pollution. On Tuesday (February 28), the DA opened a criminal case against the municipal manager, Thuso Nemugumoni for neglecting her duties to prevent the situation. According to DA portfolio member for water and sanitation, Johan Retters, the state of deterioration and malfunctioning of both treatment plants has been evident during oversight visits by the portfolio committee. “Both plants have been operating without managers for years and the neglect is obvious. Currently, raw or partially treated effluent flows directly into the Sand and Blood rivers on the outskirts of Polokwane,” Retters claims. He said the Polokwane wastewater treatment plant was designed to treat 26ML of effluent per day. Currently, an estimated 45Ml is running through the plant, however, officials on site could not confirm the amount of outflow as the relevant meters are not functioning. Retters also said that some areas of the treatment work plants are inaccessible due to overgrown weeds and grass. “Polokwane is on the brink of an imminent health risk unless there is immediate intervention from the municipality,” Retters said, adding that the DA lodged a complaint with the South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) in July 2022 in this regard, but is yet to receive feedback. “After our oversight, we provided feedback to the portfolio committee and requested an urgent meeting with the executive mayor, the MMC for water and the municipal manager, to which we have received no response. The lack of urgency from the municipality to deal with this problem shows they are not concerned with the well-being and health of residents and the environment. Polokwane deserves better,” Retters concluded. Municipal communications and marketing manager, Matshidiso Mothapo, however claims Retters only approached Nemugumoni for the first time on Monday (February 27) about the situation at the plants and at the time, Nemugumoni had already appointed contractors who are expected to be on site this week to deal with the situation. “The municipality takes this matter seriously and it is receiving the utmost urgent attention that it deserves. It is in the best interest of the municipality to ensure that the treatment plants are operating optimally and that there is no effluent where it shouldn’t be. The municipal manager has acted in the interest of the environment and the well-being of residents by appointing contractors and putting measures in place to ensure that the facility is properly managed and continue to implement monitoring of the work done by contractors to ensure the situation is speedily resolved,” Mothapo told the Polokwane Observer. Mothapo also confirmed that Nemugumoni was not aware of a case being opened against her and gave the assurance that the matter is receiving attention. 