Trying to be productive and look professional when it’s over 30 degrees outside and all you really want to do is swim and eat ice cream can be quite a task, especially if you are feeling sweaty and sticky. Enjoy the last few weeks of summer and stay cool while doing so with these five tips:  Keep tabs on your water consumption: Yes, we know we’re supposed to drink 2 litres of water a day, but reality is that it is often not that easy to fit this into our busy lives. While staying hydrated should always be a priority, it is especially important during the summer months. Your greatest option for staying cool is hydration. Avoid sugary, caffeinated, or energy-boosting drinks, as they can be counterproductive and dehydrate you further.  Wear cool clothing: You know that gross feeling of clothes sticking to you, making you feel even hotter and sweatier…that’s because you aren’t wearing the right material. You might think loose, flowing maxi dresses will do the trick, but unless it’s made from material that breathes and allows the heat to escape, it’s not going to help.  Opt for shade, always: Long beach days and lounging in the sun by the pool is what summer is all about, right? Not if you want to stay cool. Look for a breezy, shady spot, take a sip of your drink with the fun little umbrella, relax in a hammock, take in the views and take pleasure in your free time over the weekends while staying chilled.  Go for spicy: We know what you are thinking…eating spicy food should make you feel hotter, right? Yes, but it is a lot like drinking tea on a hot day. When you eat spicy food, your body temperature rises internally, causing you to perspire, which will chill your body more effectively than foods like ice cream and watermelon which only have a temporary effect.  Stay dry and fresh: It’s never pleasant to be out in public on a hot day, feeling sweaty, hot and bothered. Having an antiperspirant that you can trust to keep you feeling fresh and dry throughout the day is key during the summer. We love the Shower to Shower Ladies Antiperspirant, Confident Me with StayDry™ and Soothex.