The Women’s World Car of the Year (WWCOTY) is voted for by a jury comprising 63 women motoring journalists from 45 countries across five continents and here are their 2023 victors. Winners are selected based on a range of criteria, including safety, driving, comfort, technology, design, efficiency, impact on the environment, and value for money. The voting process revealed six winners in six different categories, including urban model, performance car, large SUV, large Car, family SUV and 4×4. The jurors stated that ‘no vote was given at random’, as each vehicle was subjected to ‘demanding driving tests, detailed analysis, and careful comparative assessments’. The Kia Niro won best urban car simply because it is a versatile and eco-friendly option for drivers who want a stylish and practical crossover SUV. It has a range of hybrid, plug-in hybrid, and all-electric models. Being a high-performing sports car, the Audi RS3 grabbed the performance car of the year award as it offers a turbocharged 2.5-litre five-cylinder engine that pumps out 294kW and 500Nm. The Family SUV award went to the Jeep Avenger, the brand’s first-ever zero-emission ride, which also won the 2023 European Car of the Year, beating the VW ID. The Large Car award went to the Citroën C5 X, which offers exceptional quality, roominess, and an attractive design, with fuel and plug-in hybrid engine options. The Nissan X-Trail is the 2023 Women’s World Car of the Year winner in the Large SUV category. Offering plenty of space and the option of seven seats, offering efficient performance in difficult terrain thanks to its hybrid e-Power technology. Last but not least, the 4×4 award went to the Ford Ranger, deemed as being a ‘reliable, stylish, and charismatic pickup’, which ‘moves with ease over any terrain’, and is efficient as an off-roader, but more practical thanks to its cargo box. Coinciding with International Women’s Day, the big winner will be announced on Wednesday, subsequent to yet another round of voting, with the jurors choosing one vehicle from the aforementioned six. Read the original story on CAR Magazine.