If ever there was a question that gets the engines started, it is what bakkie you should, or should not, buy. Enter the new Ford Ranger Raptor. “The outgoing Ranger Raptor we launched locally in 2019 created an entirely new segment for performance bakkies. It has been exceptionally popular, maintained strong sales demand through its lifespan and remains without rival four years later. And now, the Next-Gen Ranger Raptor completely rewrites the rulebook yet again, elevating performance and capability to new heights, both on- and off-road,” said Doreen Mashinini, general manager of marketing, Ford South Africa. Of course, Ford has raised the bar. “Ford’s development team focused on delivering a vehicle that is significantly more powerful, much faster, designed to conquer even more challenging terrain, tougher than ever and with more aggressive and purposeful looks to match,” Mashinini said.  More power to play With this new Raptor, Ford introduces power-hungry bakkie owners to its new twin-turbocharged 3.0-litre EcoBoost V6 petrol engine, producing a whopping 292kW and 583Nm compared to the 157kW of the previous Ranger. This is mated to a 10-speed automatic transmission – each gear programmed with its own boost profile. The Raptor’s new engine delivers effortless acceleration on tarmac, gravel, dirt, mud and sand. And with an electronically controlled active exhaust system that amplifies the engine note in four selectable drive modes (Quiet, Normal, Sport and Baja), the Next-Gen Ranger Raptor’s vocal character ranges from mild to wild. The suspension has been improved and reinforced, which will enable this new Raptor to excel in Baja mode. The suspension upgrades in the Next-Gen Ranger Raptor make the most of the new FOX Live Valve dampers. The next-generation FOX 2.5-inch Live Valve Internal Bypass shock absorbers with cutting-edge control technology offer position-sensitive damping capability. These shock absorbers are the most sophisticated yet on Ranger Raptor and are filled with Teflon-infused oil that reduces friction by around 50% compared to those on the current Ranger Raptor. This allows the suspension to adapt to the driving conditions in real time, providing exceptional on-road body control while absorbing corrugations and bigger ruts off-road with ease, ensuring maximum control and performance.  All-terrain control This comes via an advanced permanent four-wheel drive system with an all-new electronically controlled on-demand two-speed transfer case. This is combined with the standard rear locking differential, as well as a new front locking differential that takes the vehicle’s off-road capability to new heights. The driver can easily select 2H mode via the push-button controls to engage rear-wheel drive only, or 4H to lock it into four-wheel drive for improved grip and control on loose surfaces. Selecting 4L switches to low-range for more arduous off-road terrain. “Our vehicle dynamics team really set out to make Baja mode the ultimate expression of the Next-Gen Ranger Raptor’s astonishing off-road high-speed capability,” Mashinini said. “It’s a feature at the core of what the Ranger Raptor customer expects.” Providing further customisability is the new R button located on the steering wheel, which activates MyMode settings and is exclusive to the Next-Gen Ranger Raptor. This allows the driver to preprogram every aspect of the vehicle’s performance according to their unique preferences, making these available at the push of a single button. MyMode parameters determine the selected drive mode, along with the steering, suspension and exhaust settings, stability and traction control status, as well as Trail Control.  Interior The Next-Gen Ranger Raptor boasts a fully digital cabin, with a high-resolution 12.4-inch digital cluster – the largest yet on a Ranger – and a 12-inch centre touchscreen boasting Ford’s new-generation Sync 4A connectivity and entertainment system, which offers both Apple and Android wireless smartphone connectivity, along with wireless charging. Type A and C USB charging and data ports are provided in the front centre console, with a useful USB charging port located alongside the rear-view mirror to power a dashcam or GPS device. Rear passengers have access to their own USB-A and -C charging ports, complemented by a built-in 400W inverter that also provides convenient 240V power to the load box in conjunction with a 12V socket. A premium 10-speaker 660W Bang & Olufsen sound system provides exceptional acoustics that will certainly please music lovers. Integrated into the touchscreen is a superb 360-degree camera system with split-view display. The system uses cameras mounted in the front grille, under the tailgate badge and in the sideview mirrors, giving the driver a live top-down view of everything around the vehicle, as well as cross-traffic views in front of and behind the vehicle.  Driver assist technologies In line with its range-topping status, the Ranger Raptor comes with all the bells and whistles: electronic stability control with traction control, hill launch assist and hill descent control, the standard features that include a lane keeping system with lane keeping alert, lane keeping aid and road edge detection, adaptive cruise control with stop-and-go and lane centring. To assist you with parking this Raptor, you have an automated Active Park Assist 2.0. Pricing (including VAT): Ranger Raptor 3.0L V6 EcoBoost 4WD 10AT: R1 094 900 Source: MotorPress