POLOKWANE – Dr Faffa Malan, the manager of Ruminant Vet Association of South South Africa, encourages young people, especially those in rural areas, to start farming now so that they can grow up learning the tricks of running a successful farm. He gave this advice during a farmers’ day organised by African Farming, held at Mathuba Genetics at Ha- Ravele on February 2. Young farmers around the province, students from Univen, learners from various schools, and farmers attended the event. Malan encouraged farmers to take agricultural farming seriously to help fight poverty and unemployment. He encouraged those farmers from disadvantaged areas to start using farming, not only as a way to sustain themselves, but also to contribute to the economy in a meaningful way. “We want to take farmers on board, particularly those from previously disadvantaged rural areas. They must use their hands to curb the scarcity of food and the hike in food prices in the country. It is time to get up and do things for yourself, so that we can defeat poverty and unemployment and help create jobs for jobless people. I want to encourage our rural farmers to actively participate in agricultural farming to better their lives,” said Malan. You might also want to read: Farming is the future, says award-winning farmer He said nowadays, emerging farmers had no reason not to take up farming, and urged them to work together with emerging young farmers by supporting and nurturing them until they become top producers. According to the chairman of the Limpopo Indigenous Veld Goat Club (IVG) and deputy chairman of the Bosvelder Limpopo Club and director of Mathuba Genetics, Emmanuel Mudau, farming is the best way to fight poverty. He pointed out that without land, people were simply unable to grow and that chiefs should make land more accessible as it still remained a challenge for young black farmers. “Now and then you have to search for knowledge, information and support from various sources. By attending this day, some of the challenges we generally take for granted will be reduced,” Mudau said. “I am impressed with the role young farmers play in the farming sector, and for encouraging communities from a poor background to participate in farming,” said Chief Makhado Sinthumule who also attended the event. 