Which business wouldn’t want to adopt a solution that generates revenue, makes it possible to solve problems, and produces data-driven insights? Artificial intelligence (AI) makes this possible and is now more important than ever. Experts say there is little doubt that AI will significantly alter the business landscape and below executives from several industries explain how AI is affecting their fields. Mckinsey and Company states in a report that revenues from fintech solutions will grow by eight times, reaching $30 billion by 2025. According to the report, fintech solutions are 80% cheaper and have savings returns of three times higher. The report mentions that industry growth slows down for no one and explains how innovative technology such as AI and machine learning will continue to improve into every part of business processes. AI in the payment sector is playing a growing role, especially when it comes to its increasing consumerisation. “Financial institutions already employ AI-driven technology for fraud protection, credit decisioning and loan default prediction purposes. We predict that most apps in a consumer’s mobile app will son be powered by AI and the use cases of AI-powered products will be extended into every aspect of a consumer’s life,” says Olaseni Alabede, the chief technology officer at MFS Africa’s Global Technology Partners. AI is set to transform the investment industry and directly impact customer experience. AI, through the use of complex algorithms, can analyse large amounts of data to make investment decisions and provide personalised recommendations, resulting in improved returns and increased transparency. “This is particularly true of ChatGPT. It’s a tool that will allow retail investors to analyse financial data in ways that have not been possible before. It can delve into huge volumes of data, and that provides us with far more information about companies and shares, moves in the markets, and so on. All in all, it means that an investor will have greater access to information and access to insights that are more credible,” says Greeff Invest director Heloise Greeff. AI-powered virtual financial advisors and chatbots can offer 24/7 access to investment advice and support, thus improving speed and efficiency. “Additionally, AI can help investment companies gain insights into market trends and customer preferences, allowing them to make data-driven decisions that improve the overall customer experience. By addressing individual needs and preferences, providing greater visibility into investments, and improving the speed and efficiency of the investment process, AI has the potential to significantly enhance the customer experience in the investment industry,” says Greeff. “Generative AI has the power to transform the way we live and work, but we must explore these technologies inclusively and responsibly. Like all AI innovations, we’re building trusted AI capabilities with embedded guardrails and guidance to help catch potential problems before they happen,” explains Zuko Mdwaba, the country leader and area vice president of Salesforce South Africa. The generative AI era is only at its inception, and it is important that these technologies align with specific business needs and specific business applications. If we can approach generative AI responsibly, there’s no doubt that these news technologies have the potential to change the world. “At Salesforce, for example, we reach billions of people through sales, service, marketing, commerce and IT technology, and serve industries that touch every facet of society. Everything that is deployed, no matter how revolutionary, has to also offer mission critical reliability. So, while the capabilities of generative AI belong at the top of our minds, so do their limitations,” “Generative AI introduces new and big ideas, and the complexity lurking beneath the surface will likely challenge the most innovative companies for years to come. But there’s a simple idea connecting them all, and it’s a core Salesforce value: Trust. The world must be given good reasons to trust these models at every level; trusting the content they create, trusting the things they say, and trusting the platforms on which they run,” concludes Mdwaba.