Managing condensation on windows can help prevent problems like damp, mould and mildew in your home. In coastal areas, in particular, damp can be a problem in the summer months – not only when the weather is cooler. Window condensation occurs when excess moisture in the air condenses on the inside of windows. This might be caused by a lack of ventilation, resulting in excess moisture in the air, or inadequate insulation, which causes damp air meeting the cold glass to create water droplets. Condensation can also occur on walls and other surfaces, but it’s usually more noticeable on windows as it causes them to steam up or water to stream down panes and pool on windowsills. Condensation on windows, walls and other structures in a home is a common problem. If undetected, it can result in damage to furniture, mould growth, mite infestation, unhealthy living conditions, poor indoor air quality and damage to the structure of the building. If condensation is not removed from walls and windowsills, it can lead to timber rotting and having to remove mould from walls and ceilings. Three main ways to prevent condensation on windows are: improving ventilation, proper insulation and clearing of moisture. Opening all your windows and airing your home for 10 to 15 minutes a day will make a big difference in the build-up of moisture. The idea is to exchange the air in all the rooms, filling your home with fresh air. Positive input ventilation (PIV) systems dilute moisture in the air and bring fresh, filtered, tempered air into the home that is drier than the air inside. The PIV unit is installed in the ceiling space with a distribution diffuser. The continual supply and slightly positive pressure mean the air in your home is continually diluted, displaced and replaced to create healthier indoor air quality. Improving the insulation in your home will help minimise condensation on windows. It will also help reduce the cost of heating and cooling your home so that it will save you money in the long term. The type of insulation you choose will depend on the design of your home as well as the orientation and various other factors. It could include cavity, internal or external wall or ceiling solutions, as well as flooring options. Draughtproofing is often an efficient and cost-effective way to ensure your house stays warmer for longer, and if your windows are old and past their best, then replacing them could be a good choice. Use a window vacuum to quickly remove condensation from windows in the mornings. They are also excellent for cleaning your windows – as well as other glazed surfaces like shower doors and mirrors. A squeegee will also do the job and is more effective than a cloth. There are several ways to reduce the amount of moisture in a room, which will help prevent condensation. Blinds and curtains can cause moisture to be trapped between them and windows, increasing the chances of condensation. To avoid this, open blinds and windows early in the morning – and keep blinds in kitchens and bathrooms open while cooking or showering. Writer : Sarah-Jane Meyer