Bakkie titles like Ford’s new Ranger Raptor and Volkswagen’s Amarok Aventura are accompanied by heart-stopping seven-figure price tags. Here is how the two compare: Both bakkies are powered by a 3,0-litre V6.  In the case of the Ford Ranger Raptor, its twin-turbo EcoBoost petrol-powered V6 endows the Herculean off-roader with a power output of 292 kW and 583 N.m, matted to a ten-speed automatic transmission which feeds power to an electronically controlled four-wheel drive system. The power plant in the new Raptor features almost double the power compared to the previous model. The maximum towing capacity provided by Ford claims that the Raptor can handle a maximum load of 2 500 kg. Endowed with a little less power than the Raptor, the 3,0-litre V6 TDI affords the Amarok Aventura a power output of 184 kW and 600 N.m. The Amarok Aventura utilizes Volkswagen’s newly introduced ten-speed automatic coupled with a shift-by-wire system. Claimed top speed for the Aventura is said to be 180km/h with a claimed fuel consumption figure of 8,4L/100km, while the Raptors claimed fuel consumption figure sits a fair bit higher at 11,5L/100km. An evolution of the aggressive front end of the previous Raptor model, the latest integration’s design is accentuated by features such as the LED C-clamp headlights, broad front grille and produced bash plate. Aside from these additions —and a few others— the Raptor retains the overall aesthetic and heretical features like its bulbous haunches and staunch stance. Appearance aside, the 2023 Ford Ranger Raptor trumps the dimensions of its predecessor. Its measurements are as follows; length measures 5 360 mm, it is 2 225 mm wide, it is 1 926 mm tall and is founded on a wheelbase measuring in at 3 270 mm. The Amarok innovates on its predecessor’s looks and skeleton despite sharing the same underpinnings as the standard Ford Ranger. The 2023 Amarok features a redesigned front end dominated by the spanning horizontal front grille curtailed by wider half-round wheel arches. The Aventura builds on all the range standard exterior offerings with additional features ranging from chrome mirror caps, 21-inch Varberg alloy wheels, and a body colour sports bar, to name a few. Similarly to the Raptor’s beefier skeleton, the 2023 Amarok’s body is broader and longer than its predecessor. Measurements for VW’s double-cab are as follows; lengths measured at 5 350 mm, 3 270 mm wheelbase. The latest Amarok is endowed with a greater wading depth of 800 mm compared to the 500 mm wading death of the previous model. According to Volkswagen, the Amarok Aventura is capable of towing over 3 tonnes.  The tech specs and driver assistance features are in line with what you’d expect from a million-rand bakkie. The Raptor features the following driver assistance features; adaptive cruise control, blind spot monitoring with trailer coverage, cross-traffic alert, DSC, ABS, Load Adaptive Control, Roll Over mitigation, Reverse brake assist, 360-degree camera, pre-collision assist. As for the Aventura, it features the following driver assistance systems; 360-degree camera, Adaptive cruise control, Rear Traffic Alert, Blind Spot detection, Lane assist, Park Assist, Light Assist, and Evasive steering. Ford offers a standard four-year/120 000 km warranty, four-year/unlimited distance Roadside assistance and a five-year/ unlimited distance corrosion warranty. Customers can opt for the Ford Protect service covering up to eight years of 165 000 km. The warranty can be extended, covering up to seven years or 200 000 km. Related: Ford Ranger Raptor pricing finally announced! Volkswagen offers a standard four-year/120 000 km warranty, a five-year/100 000 km EasyDrive Maintenance Plan and a six-year anti-corrosion warranty. Related: 2023 Volkswagen Amarok specification confirmed These are the latest and greatest offerings from some of South Africa’s most prolific bake manufacturers. Pioneering the luxury and utility bake space, which million rand bakkie are you more enticed by? Ford Ranger Raptor or Volkswagen Amarok Aventura. Read the original article on CAR Magazine.