The JAC X200 is now available with no less than 10 different body applications. The body conversions will all be done at the dealer level. This will eliminate any concerns about possible infringement of warranty clauses. The X200 is powered by an economical 2.8-litre, turbo-diesel engine offering 80kW and 240Nm. Power is driven to the wheels via a five-speed transmission. The 1.5 tonne single-cab also boasts a bigger payload than its competitors. This body/chassis combination can be converted to applications such as refrigeration units, cargo boxes, tippers, and a range of steel- and fibreglass canopies that can be customised for specific jobs. The double-cab derivative also supports an approved Jurgens Caravans camper unit with modern-day camping amenities.   “The X200 has earned its place in the competitive forward-cab workhorse market. Its no-nonsense work attitude explains why it is popular with business owners and entrepreneurs,” says Karl-Heinz Göbel, CEO of JAC Motors South Africa. “It isn’t only very affordable, but is a true all-rounder that can handle any task thrown its way.” Göbel explains that a leading local online car publication compared the X200 to its direct Korean competitors and found it 30% more powerful, offering the lowest fuel consumption and running cost. “Our economical X200 features the ideal engine for our country’s demanding conditions. It is reliable and easy to maintain, making it the most cost-effective solution for transport operators.” The X200 double-cab features anti-lock braking System, offering increased safety for the driver, crew and cargo. The forward-cab design is more practical as it offers increased load box space and with this in mind, the single cab offers a maximum payload of 1 500kg. Its standard dropside configuration is ideal for demanding work conditions, making loading and unloading a lot easier.  Comfortable, ergonomically designed cab to improve driver comfort and safety The X200’s elevated driving position improves all-round visibility, making marking and maneuvering in a parking lot and construction site much easier and safer. The cab is fitted with a radio/CD/MP3 player with Bluetooth adding to driver safety. In addition, the X200 double-cab features anti-lock brake assist), a height-adjustable steering wheel and electric windows. Air conditioning is standard on both single- and double-cab configurations. Model line-up and pricing Pricing starts at R329 900 and includes a five-year/150 000km manufacturer warranty and a five-year/60 000km service plan. Service intervals are scheduled for every 10 000km/12 months. Source: QuickPic