MOKOPANE – Six prominent mountain bikers from Mokopane will participate in the untamed African Absa Cape Epic Mountain Bike Race from March 19-26. The race is considered the toughest mountain bike race in the world and spans over eight days. It’s a race where true colours are shown, where history is made, rivals turn into teammates and stories are left behind in the dust. The route covers 658km and 15 775m of climbing. The epic challenge begins at Merendal Wine Estate and the trails of Tiger Bird Mountain Bike Club, where pre-race jitters will settle or compound. The bikers’ challenge is not only the extreme weather conditions but the tough route takes them over mountains and through trying trails through the water and mud to finally cross the finish line at Val de Vie Estate, where the heroes of the race will celebrate. Some broken and blue but not defeated. Dad and daughter team, Hein and Lané du Plessis ride together for the first time this year. “We are three teams from Mokopane, Eddy Texierra, Awie Hatting, JP van Tonder, Stephen Smit, myself and my daughter. For me it is special. I’m riding it for the fourth time, but this is the one I’m most looking forward to because I’m riding with my daughter. It’s her first time and it’s a dream come true for us. I think it will be particularly difficult, especially the last three days. And the weather can play a big role this year.” Hein adds that the teams have been working hard for this challenge for the past six months. Lané confirmed her dad’s words. “This is my first Cape Epic and it is truly a dream to be able to ride with my father. We have already ridden quite a few stage races together. In 2020 I started cycling again since I rode competitively at school. I told my coach that in three years I want to ride the Epic and yes now it is a reality. I am really looking forward to the event and it is a great privilege to be able to participate. There are very few people who could complete the whole race and even fewer women. At least I have the best teammate and my father is very experienced. My dad is my biggest inspiration and of course my mom, Linda, is our biggest supporter.” 