Multi-Pelleted seeds are simply three or more seeds covered in a dissolvable, pelleted coating. This makes it easier to handle and space the seed, and there is no need to thin it out. Germination is also quicker. It’s mostly used for fine seed like lettuce and other greens. Originally pelleted seed was introduced to make commercial growing easier. Multi-pelleted seed is now available to home gardeners through the Simply Salad patio veggie range that includes lettuce mixes, Asian greens and mixed kale varieties from the online seed supplier, Gro-Pak. “Sowing tiny seeds properly in small containers is difficult,” says Kathy Varney of Gro-Pak. “But with larger pelleted seeds, you can decide how many you want per pot, set them on the soil surface, then press them into the potting soil with a pencil. That way you are sure to get one or two seeds per pot, rather than a clump that is difficult to thin.” It’s also a good product to use when teaching kids how to sow seeds.  Pros and cons While the pros are obvious, one of the limitations of pelleted seed is that it does not have as long a shelf life as raw seed. It’s best to order and sow just what you need. However, storing the pelleted seed in an air-tight container in a dark, cool place will keep it viable for longer. Once sown, the growing mix must be kept consistently moist during germination. Pelleted seeds either split open or disintegrate on contact with water. The seed can then absorb the water which kickstarts germination. If the growing mix dries out, the pellet may only partially split, stunting the seed’s development.  Simply Salad Summer Picnic Mix  This salad mix includes red and green loose-leaf lettuce in each multi-species multi-pellet.  To harvest: Harvest by cutting individual leaves as needed or every three weeks by cutting back to 5cm and allowing the plants to regrow. This can be done several times. Feed with a liquid fertiliser after cutting. For more information, visit https://www.gropak.co.za/products/summer-picnic-mix  Wonder Wok Mix  Wonder Wok Mix consists of a medley of Asian greens including mustard leaves, kale and Pak Choi. If grown as a mesclun crop the baby leaves are ready for harvesting within four weeks or can be left to mature (55 days). For more information, visit https://www.gropak.co.za/products/wonder-wok-mix  Kale Storm  Kale Stormproduces a decorative pot of four different kale varieties (per multi-pellet), with purple, green and blue textured leaves, creating a ‘bouquet’ of leaves. Plants grow 60cm high and wide. To harvest: Use scissors to cut everything about 2-5cm from the ground, when the plants are about 10-15cm tall or pick individual leaves as baby leaves when they’re needed. When cut back completely the plants will regrow several times. For more information, visit https://www.gropak.co.za/products/kale-storm