POLOKWANE – Streaming services such as Showmax and Netflix have made it possible to watch your favourite series or movies on demand, whenever you want to. This however makes it even more difficult to decide between the magnitude of options available – that’s where we come in. Review has put together a list of shows you should stream on your favourite platform. What to Watch this week on: Showmax: Series: The Real Housewives of Durban Season 3 of the Showmax Original The Real Housewives of Durban introduces three new cast members who will be bringing all the class, glamour, sass and drama we’ve come to love and expect from the franchise. eThekwini queens Maria Valaskatzis, Mbali Ngiba and Slindile Wendy Ndlovu are the new additions to the reality series. The new faces are set to join returning cast members Annie Mthembu, Jojo Robinson, Nonku Williams and Sorisha Naidoo. Movie: The Lost Daughter The Lost Daughter centres on Leda, a woman alone on a seaside vacation, who becomes consumed with a young mother and daughter as their compelling relationship unlocks memories of the terror, confusion and intensity of early motherhood. The film’s stellar cast includes Dakota Johnson (The Fifty Shades films), Paul Mescal (Normal People), Peter Sarsgaard (An Education) and Ed Harris (Top Gun: Maverick). For the kids: The Smeds and The Smoos The Smeds and The Smoos tells the story of two warring families whose children, Bill and Janet, fall in love and run away together. Hotly pursued by their grandparents, Grandfather Smed (comedian Bill Bailey) and Grandmother Smoo (Adjoa Andoh from Bridgerton), the two young aliens lead their families on a chase across space, giving them the opportunity to find out they have more in common than they think. Netflix: Series: Physical: 100 One hundred contestants in top physical shape compete in a series of gruelling challenges to claim the honour and cash reward as the last one standing. Movie: Your Place or Mine For the kids: Oddballs Bubble-shaped boy James questions anything and everything that annoys him. The result? An awesome life of odd adventure with his two best friends. Sources: Showmax, Wikipedia and What’s on Netflix. 