LIMPOPO – What started as a passion has become a profession for the energetic 39-year-old Rose Matsetela. She said she refused to wait for opportunities to come knocking at her door, and instead comes up with innovative ideas to create opportunities for her. Matsetela initially started making accessories, using recycled materials and anything else she could find.  She said people noticed her work and became interested in owning a pair of her creations. You might also want to read: Stan’s business promotes progress and self-sustainability She then went on to make earrings and beaded necklaces and expanded this range to include hand-made leather products such as bags, card holders and pouches. “Recently, I added embroidery services to my offerings. I am happy to be able to provide unique, sustainable products that people enjoy wearing. My passion for art and the support of my customers have been the driving force behind my motivation,” said Matsetela. She said her entrepreneurial journey started in 2016 when she decided to turn her hobby into a sustainable business by introducing more product lines.  “Although I have no formal business training, my previous experience as a caregiver at an old age home provided me with valuable skills that have helped me run my business. Crafting by hand requires both physical and mental effort, and at times, I have doubted whether machines could ever produce the same level of precision and uniqueness. My vision is to expand my business by supplying stores and creating job opportunities for young people. So far, the highlight of my journey has been leaving my job to pursue my passion and focus on my business full-time, but I am determined to continue to grow and improve in the future,” she said. She told CV that her family has been instrumental in her marketing and advertising efforts, frequently sharing her work on social media platforms. “Some of the challenges that I have encountered include the difficulty of bringing back popular products that I’ve outgrown and pricing confusion among customers, who often compare my products to those sold in other mass-market stores. However, I have overcome these obstacles by innovating and offering unique designs that stand out. While there’s no single recipe for success, I have found that remaining consistent, staying true to my vision, and delivering quality products have been fundamental to the growth of my business,” she concludes. 