POLOKWANE – Premier Chupu Mathabatha delivered the State of the Province Address (Sopa) on February 23, giving an extensive analysis of the province’s economic conditions and plans to ensure province’s economic growth. Political parties and other parastatals reacted to address. The EFF noted with disappointment that the premier only focused on 150 schools in terms of the provision of proper sanitation facilities. This, while over 500 Limpopo schools are still subjected to using pit toilets, according to EFF provincial chairperson, Tshilidzi Maraga. “The speech was undoubtedly shallow and did not address the real issues affecting the community. Unemployment, poverty, and inequality are on the rise while the premier continues to praise a selective economic recovery plan which doesn’t benefit the poor,” Maraga remarked. DA Limpopo Caucus leader Jacques Smalle said there was little to celebrate. “The address held no tangible evidence of improvement of good governance that benefits the people of the province. Collapsing water and electrical infrastructure and disintegrating road networks cause untold hardships for private citizens, farms, mines and the private sector alike, who despite these challenges, struggle but manage to stay afloat.” He added that they are concerned that the premier was boastful about positives strides made in the tourism, mining, private and commercial agricultural sectors post-covid, while few of these industries receive any assistance from government. Provincial South African Youth Council spokesperson Khomotso Mangwale said that while they were encouraged by the premier’s address, they were still awaiting the plans and programmes Mathabatha had outlined to come into effect. “The speech gave me confidence, and we are grateful to be one of the provinces that has seen a decline in unemployment from 36.3% to 31%. “The main message we took away from the speech is that all unfunded programmes will receive funding, and that skill-building initiatives will be implemented and sustained through Setas, Nyda and other youth-based programmes across the majority of the province’s areas. The chairperson of Businesswomen Association Limpopo, Khumi Motshekga said the speech had highlights and drawbacks. “We appreciate the attention being placed on the province’s road infrastructure as it is one of the primary concerns we must deal with as well, as growth in tourism. Also, we are very grateful for the funding that has been made available for the youth, as this demonstrates a commitment to and interest in the young.” She stated that having more people apply for the social relief grant was worrisome. “As a result, the hope is that the funding and other programmes that will be put in place, will encourage people to pursue entrepreneurship and help SMMEs in the province grow. She would have like to see the premier addresses matters pertaining specifically to women, she added. “We are disappointed that the premier did not talk about women empowerment and we hope the MEC of Treasury will have something to say on women empowerment to support women.” 