For the past three months, Eskom has instituted almost continuous daily load-shedding because of a shortage of power grid capacity. Load shedding is a measure of last resort to prevent the total collapse of the electricity system. When there is insufficient power station capacity to supply the demand from all the customers, the system becomes unbalanced. This can cause it to trip country-wide, resulting in a complete blackout. Switching off sections of the electricity network in a planned and controlled manner, ensures the system remains stable, spreading the impact over a wider customer base. Energy experts agree that Eskom’s load shedding and financial problems are set to continue, so South Africans need to prepare for dark days ahead. One of the ways of doing this is to know which appliances in your home use the most electricity and to minimise use of the power guzzlers whenever possible. Electricity usage is measured in kilowatt-hours (kWh). If energy is transmitted or used at a constant rate over a period of time, the total energy in kilowatt-hours is equal to the power in kilowatts multiplied by the time in hours. Simply put, one kWh is the amount of energy consumed if a 1 000 watt appliance runs for one hour. A 100-watt light bulb would take 10 hours to use 1 kWh of energy, and a 2 000 watt appliance would use 1 kWh in just 30 minutes. Tumble dryers head the list of appliances that use the most electricity, followed by ‘wet’ appliances like dishwashers and washing machines. This is because they consume a lot of electricity to heat the water they use. These appliances are responsible for approximately 16% of energy consumption in the average home. Following wet appliances, cold appliances are the next most significant drain on household energy, responsible for around 12% of total energy bill costs. These include refrigerators and freezers, which always draw power to maintain a constant temperature. Consumer electronics like TVs and game consoles can make up about 6% of an average home’s total energy bill. Smaller appliances like irons and hairdryers typically have a higher wattage than household appliances. However, they are used for a much shorter period, so they are usually only responsible for a small amount of energy consumption. Lighting is estimated to comprise around 5% of a home’s energy bill, but lighting costs vary enormously. It depends on the type of lights installed in your home and how often they are turned on. For example, a family of four might have lights on in all the bedrooms and bathrooms for several hours every night, whereas a single couple might have just the lounge lights on until bedtime. A non-energy efficient 100 W bulb consumes 0.1kWh, whereas a more energy efficient 4W LED bulb uses only 0.004kWh. The best way to cut energy bills is by choosing energy-efficient appliances and using the less energy-intensive eco mode on appliances that have them, such as dishwashers and washing machines. These tips will help you optimise your energy usage and enable you to contribute to slowing down climate change – and save cash on your energy bills. Writer : Sarah-Jane Meyer