The Mercedes-Benz EQE offers luxury in a compact format. It will be available in two derivatives: the EQE 350+ (215kW and 565Nm) and the AMG EQE 43 4MATIC (350kW and 858Nm). “2023 is an extremely important year for the Mercedes-EQ offensive in South Africa,” says Mark Raine, the co-CEO of Mercedes-Benz South Africa and executive director of passenger cars. “Alongside the EQA, EQB, EQC and EQS, we’re introducing the all-new, avant-garde EQE. This business saloon cements our reputation as a manufacturer of class-leading, technologically advanced luxury vehicles in the EV space. With a driving range of up to 645km, the EQE effortlessly reconciles innovation and emotion with forward-thinking sustainability.” Although more compact than the EQS, the EQE still offers luxury and performance par excellence.  Efficient drive system The EQE 350 has an electric drivetrain (eATS) on the rear axle, while the AMG model is also equipped with an eATS at the front axle. The electric motors are permanently excited synchronous motors. In the EQE, the lithium-ion battery consists of ten modules and has a usable energy content of 90.56 kWh.  AMG sound experience With the AMG Sound Experience, the performance and sports car brand is giving a new voice to electric mobility. Its standard driving programme still delivers an “authentic” AMG sound. The driver can, however, choose his preferred sound characteristic between “balanced”, “sport” and “powerful” in any drive programme. During race start, the vehicle produces a unique sound to match the dynamic acceleration.  High level of passive and active safety The fact that the EQE is based on an all-electric architecture also opened up new design possibilities for its safety concept. The latest generation of driving assistance systems includes a microsleep warning from Attention Assist (in conjunction with MBUX Hyperscreen). The EQE 350+ will be available in South Africa at an estimated price of R1.8m and the Mercedes-AMG EQE 43 4MATIC at an estimated price of R2.2m. This includes a PremiumDrive Platinum five-year/100 000km maintenance plan and a 10-year battery warranty. Final pricing will be confirmed shortly. Source: MotorPress 