All over South Africa, people are beginning preparations for the summer holidays, and for many, this means having visitors staying over. To ensure you and your guests enjoy their visit, you need to prepare in advance. Make sure the bedding in the guest room is appropriate for the season. For example, in summer, a light duvet with a cotton cover is ideal. But make sure there are one or two blankets at hand for cooler nights. Make guests feel at home with space to put their belongings, so they don’t have to live out of their suitcases. Clear one or two drawers, a shelf, or a cupboard for their personal use. A snack hamper could include bottles of water or juice, some fresh fruit, biscuits and chocolates. Most guests will bring their own toiletries, but be sure to provide fresh towels along with a basket with necessities in case they forget something. Shampoo, conditioner, soap and toothpaste often come in small containers, and some new toothbrushes may come in handy. Sleeper couches are a great solution when you don’t have a designated guest room or if you need sleeping room for more guests than usual. There are several types of mattresses and configurations, and each one can affect sleeping comfort, sitting surface and space planning. Futons. The most basic of sleeper couches, a futon has a metal or wooden frame with a single mattress on top. When folded up, the mattress creates the back and seat of the couch. Although it makes a comfortable bed, a futon can be uncomfortable to sit on as the seat is very firm. Daybeds. A daybed is a single twin mattress in a frame to give it the look of a couch. The frame lacks cushioning, so this style is best for a room that doesn’t need more seating room. Foldouts. The mattress is supported by a thick fabric secured by springs on the side. Foldout mattresses come in a few different options: innerspring, foam or innerspring with an air topper, which is the most comfortable. These sleeper couches require more space as you need room to unfold the mattress. Pull-out pop-ups. A bottom mattress pulls out from under the couch. You can use it as two twin beds or pop the lower mattress up to create a bigger bed. You don’t need as much space to pull out the bed as you sleep parallel to the back of the couch. Since it’s a mattress, the pull-out pop-up style provides a comfortable sleeping surface. It’s also comfortable as a couch and can be used in several configurations. Although comfort and style are important when choosing a sleeper couch, there are other things to consider – how it will be used, how often it will be used for sleeping and what size of a room it will stand in. Will it be a main couch in a living room or something used a lot less frequently in an office or guest room? If it’s going in the living room, you’ll want seating comfort to be a priority. Choose a cushion with an innerspring core to help compensate for the spring suspension loss. If the couch won’t be used as a bed for weeks at a time, then a standard foldout sleeper couch should be fine. For more regularly used sleepers, consider a pull-out pop-up or an air-topped foldout mattress. Room size is an important consideration. You don’t want to have to move furniture around whenever you need to transform the couch into a bed. Foldout sleepers take up the most space when converted to a bed. If you have a tight fit, opt for a pull-out pop-up. Having comfortable and attractive sleeping arrangements will make the holiday visit far more enjoyable – for you and your guests. Writer : Sarah-Jane Meyer