MOKOPANE – A fifth suspect, Steven Mohlala (28), who is linked to the murder of Vaaltyn Kekana and Ralph Kanyane, was arrested in Lebowakgomo recently. His arrest followed after a well-co-ordinated investigation by the SAPS. “This latest arrest is highly commendable and should send a strong message that the police will always be determined and relentless when pursuing criminals and bringing them to justice.” said Lt Gen Thembi Hadebe, provincial police commissioner of Limpopo. Mohlala is facing charges of conspiracy to commit murder, two counts of murder, illegal possession of a firearm and ammunition. He appeared before the Mokopane Magistrate’s Court and the case was postponed to January 30 for a formal bail application. The suspect remains in custody. Bosveld earlier reported that the co-accused, Samuel Mokonyane, Jabu Mashamaite, James Chuma and Nkholo Monyadi have already appeared in court and will stand trial on February 27 in the Limpopo Division of the High Court in Polokwane on charges of conspiracy to commit murder, two counts of murder and possession of an illegal firearm. Read more: ANC murders: Mashamaite and Chuma granted bail Mashamaite and Chuma, two of the four accused of murdering the anti-corruption activists, were granted bail of R10 000 each. Kanyane (32) and Kekana (54) were shot after it was believed they wanted to expose tender fraud within the Mogalakwena Municipality. Read more: Mokopane shooting victims were ‘probing tender fraud’ The two were seated in a vehicle when they were shot at point-blank range on July 23, 2019 in Pretorius Street. Both men died on the scene and the shooter fled on foot. At the time, a high-level investigating team was assembled. The first accused, Samuel Mokonyane, faces charges of conspiracy to commit a crime, two counts of murder, the unlawful possession of a firearm, as well as the unlawful possession of ammunition. The other three accused, Mashamaite, Chuma and Monyadi face charges of conspiracy to commit a crime, as well as two counts of murder. 