The French are embarking on a path that envisions an onslaught on design benchmarks that will change the way people think about cars – all cars. It is referred to as the Peugeot Inception Concept. It will be alluring and will redefine people’s emotions and appreciation of excellence and technical competency. Linda Jackson CEO of the Peugeot brand says: “Peugeot is committed to the electrification of its range. In 2023, 100% of the vehicles in the range will be electrified and in the next two years, five new 100% electric models will be launched. Our ambition is simple: To make Peugeot the leading electric brand in Europe by 2030. This objective and ambitious vision pave the way for a radical transformation for the brand.  It is embodied today in the Peugeot Inception Concept which marks the beginning of a new era.”  Future Peugeots will be built on the STLA platform which will enable the design of large vehicles offering a low and efficient profile. The 100% electric Peugeot Inception Concept is equipped with 800V technology – a 100kWh battery that will enables it to travel 800km on a single full charge. Two compact electric motors, one at the front and the other at the rear, will produce 500kW offering acceleration from 0 to 100km/h in less than three seconds. Smart glazing The glazing (windscreen, side windows and quarter windows) is made from Narima glass which was designed for architecture. It has a warm reflection, in shades of yellow, and a colder transmission, in bluish tones. “Like the Peugeot Inception Concept, our future models will be equipped with STLA brain artificial intelligence and will be fully connected. Peugeot customers will enjoy a seamless experience, combining physical and human interaction, virtual discussions with the brand and intelligent online services. The concept reveals some of these major innovations,” says Phil York, Peugeot marketing and communications director. He says future Peogeots will not only be zero-emission, but they will also be easy to use and update.  The i-Cockpit With its new hypersquare control system, the Peugeot Inception Concept, offers enhanced on-board sensations thanks to an agile driving experience and an all-new, more intuitive i-Cockpit. With the touch of a fingertip, you control all driving parameters and steer-by-wire technology makes driving more instinctive and simpler, like a video game but in real life.  In-car sound The concept is equipped with a premium hi-fi system featuring an amplifier, several sound bars (each with several 100mm coaxial loudspeakers) located in the doors and at the front of the cabin. There are also two subwoofers in the floor. Source: MotorPress