Many kids have tried the familiar excuse, “I’m just not the artistic type,” to avoid trying out a new craft project. However, all children are naturally creative individuals who should use their imagination on a daily basis, whether it’s exploring the garden, assisting mom or dad with dinner preparation, or just choosing what to wear each morning. A lot of creativity does not have to do with the arts. Activities in your child’s daily life give them multiple possibilities for problem-solving, lateral thinking, and broadening their thought patterns. While creativity is a skill that should be developed from a very young age, it is something that we continue to develop throughout our lives. Among the benefits of creativity are the following: “Creativity allows your child to communicate by expressing his thoughts and feelings, whether through dance, sketching, pretend play, or music,” Liz Senior, occupational therapist and founder of Clamber Club and Jog the Frog, explains. All creative experiences, including art, are first encountered through the senses. Give your child a rich sensory environment in which they can see, hear, feel, smell, and taste. Explore diverse creative forms with your child, listen to a wide range of music, and talk about the beauty of the world around you. “You should also encourage your child to come up with their own games and narrative ideas, as well as come up with their own solutions to problems,” says Liz. Liz proposes that before beginning a creative project with your child, you ask yourself a few questions: Will the activity build the child’s imagination, provide a sensory experience, allow the child to experiment, and provide the child with a sense of achievement or satisfaction? “Children must be given time to play in an unstructured way. They require time to contemplate, imagine, and play on their own initiative. This is what allows for the development of creativity and imagination,” she says. Creative games and creativity exercises can help your child shift perspectives, try new things, become more open-minded, and free any creative blocks! 