What Car? is a leading British platform boasting 45 years of informing and helping car buyers to make the right decision when buying a set of wheels. With some 2.2 million unique visitors, Whatcar.com offers verdicts and data on every new car and has won numerous awards and accolades. What Car? has more than 5.5m monthly points of contact with its audience on the move, at work, at home, and at the crucial point of sale. The ID Buzz, which invokes the looks of the iconic VW Type 2 camper van of the 1950s, 60s and 70s, but is actually a cutting-edge electric car, was also crowned Best Large Electric Car and stood out for combining the practicality of an MPV with the comfort and desirability of a luxury SUV, while undercutting rivals such as the BMW iX3, Jaguar I-Pace and Mercedes-Benz EQC. Adding to its appeal, the ID Buzz has an official all-electric range of 418km and can charge from 10 to 80% in less than half an hour. It offers a commanding raised driving position, superb visibility, is extremely quiet and has space to take three children or adults in the back, as well as having an enormous boot.  What Car? editor Steve Huntingford said, “The ID Buzz has been eagerly anticipated because of its nostalgic styling, but all of our judges were blown away by the fact it didn’t just live up to expectations but, in fact, was even better than the hype. “It’s great to drive, has more space than most families could ever ask for and thanks in part to incredible predicted resale value, substantially undercuts many SUV rivals on a monthly finance deal. This is a car that wins over your head as well as your heart and one that will bring huge amounts of joy to lucky buyers at a time when the costs and challenges of motoring are under greater pressure than ever.” Dr Lars Krause, board member for sales and marketing of Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles, said, “The ID Buzz is the reincarnation of an icon and we are thrilled that the experts at What Car? magazine share the enthusiasm of our fans and customers, and have given it the honour of its Car of the Year award.” To peruse the complete list of all the wards in the various categories, visit the What Car? website and https://www.volkswagen.co.uk/en/electric-and-hybrid/electric-cars/id-buzz.html Source: Newspress