MOKOPANE – Spectators regularly flock to the out-of-town oval track to enjoy an action-packed day with the racers. Racing might be considered as a sport almost anyone can partake in, but it is not as simple as getting in your car and racing around the track. There are many finer details that must be attended to before a race can be held. Bosveld talked to two organisers, Karien Ruytenberg and Alta Bekker to find out more. Karien got involved in racing about 20 years ago. “We originally went to watch the races with friends and the bug bit my oldest son, Louis. He started to compete when he was nine years old and his dedication encouraged us as a family to take up the sport with him.” Karien then joined the hotrods committee as secretary and added that during that period her daughter also participated and her youngest son, Karlo, can now be seen on the track. She drove bumper cars herself before she got pregnant, and says hotrods are in their blood, as her own father also raced. “It’s nerve-racking to see your child race around the track like that, but I always say you’re much safer on the track than off the track due to the fact that the safety measures are incredibly strict. The cars have frames inside and you drive with a helmet and special fireproof suit,” she said. Karien is currently the treasurer of the club and Alta Bekker has been appointed as the secretary to the committee that proudly makes decisions together. Alta’s initial interest started in 1999 when her husband started to participate. “The administration behind race days involves a lot of paperwork as we have strict safety procedures to abide to. Before every race, I have to get a permission permit from the police by submitting a safety plan that indicates the public is separate from the racers. You have to tell them exactly how many officials, such as directors, course officials and flagmen, will be on duty the specific day, which would be about 22 people who help make the day a success,” Alta explained. She added that the club is registered with World Of Motorsport South Africa (Womza) and therefore permits must also be obtained from Womza before each race. “There is an online registration for the drivers that has to be checked all the time to ensure their licences and medical aids are in order. The hospitals must be notified, as an ambulance must be on site during the races, as well as a tow truck.” Alta said it is important to regularly check the drivers follow the rules established by the motorsport association. “The drivers must take out special licences from Womza and have a medical aid. Under no circumstances may the racers consume alcohol during such a race. There are also certain medications that the racers may not take before they go on the track. The track must be thoroughly cleaned. There can’t be any stones on the track because the tires get so hot the stones burn into the tires. Oil marks are immediately treated with cement so that the cars do not slide.” Alta concluded that the club is not run as a business. “We are a non-profit organisation and depend on spectators and enthusiasts. The income from each race is used for the maintenance of the track and to organise future races. What we do, we do for the love of the cause.” The ladies invite anyone interested in the sport to contact them. 