Old Mutual Insure is the sponsor of the 2023 South African Car of the Year (Coty), and the judges, many from the South African Guild of Mobility Journalists (SAGMJ), are about to put these 21 finalists through a serious of tests that will ultimately determine the winner. “Congratulations to our top 21 finalists! All these vehicles have already proven to be excellent contenders, and we’re looking forward with anticipation to see which deserving vehicle will take home the coveted overall winner’s crown, as well as who the category winners will be,” said Garth Napier, managing director of Old Mutual Insure. “The 2023 Coty finalists showcase cutting-edge innovation and fierce competition in the quest to offer the best mobility solutions. These finalists are the cream of the crop in South Africa, and we can’t wait to see who comes out on top,” added Mabuyane Mabuza, chairperson of the 2023 Coty Committee.  After intense deliberation, the Coty Committee and the SAGMJ Executive Committee unanimously agreed that, instead of taking the top 12 scoring vehicles, a score cut-off was applied with the objective of including a broader spectrum of finalists without favouring categories. “The team looked at a few options, but once the suggestion of a score cut-off was on the table, it just made sense. It evened the playing field,” said Mabuza. “The semi-finalist group was incredibly competitive, with several strong contenders narrowly missing the finalist cut. This year’s finalists include a larger selection of brands, making the competition much more exciting. The Coty Committee is pleased with the vehicle selection of the final round and anticipates a tough decision for our expert jury panel,” said Mabuza. The Motor Enthusiast’s Choice (public vote) will run again this year. Keep an eye out on social media for posts featuring each finalist, and be sure to cast your vote by liking your favourite. The finalist with the most likes will be the winning vehicle, and three lucky voters will win an off-road driving course sponsored by Old Mutual Insure and the SAGMJ. “The 2023 City Committee wishes all contenders good luck. The category winners and the overall winner of the SA Car of the Year competition will be announced on June 1,” concluded Mabuza. The official hashtag for this year’s Coty Competition is #SACOTY2023. Source: QuickPic 