POLOKWANE – Streaming services such as Showmax and Netflix have made it possible to watch your favourite series or movies on demand, whenever you want to. This however makes it even more difficult to decide between the magnitude of options available – that’s where we come in. Review has put together a list of shows you should stream on your favourite platform. What to Watch this week on: Showmax: Series: New Amsterdam Season 4 of the ever-popular medical drama New Amsterdam returns us to America’s oldest public hospital, where Dr Max Goodwin (Ryan Eggold from BlacKkKlansman, 90210 and The Blacklist) continues his fight to put saving lives above the bottom line while fielding his increasingly personal relationship with Dr Helen Sharpe (Freema Agyeman from Doctor Who and Law & Order: UK, who was nominated for a 2022 Hollywood Critics Association award for Best Actress in a Broadcast Network or Cable Series for the role).  Movie: Licorice Pizza Nominated for three Oscars this year – Best Picture, Best Director, and Best Original Screenplay – Licorice Pizza tells the story of Alana Kane, a 25-year-old photography assistant, and 15-year-old actor Gary Valentine as they navigate first love in the 70s.  For the kids: Ronja, The Robber’s Daughter Following Ronja, a 10-year-old girl born into a band of robbers, this epic, Emmy-winning animated series from Studio Ghibli (My Neighbour Totoro) is based on the bestselling book by Astrid Lindgren (Pippi Longstocking) and narrated by two-time Emmy winner Gillian Anderson (The Crown, The X-Files).  Netflix: Series: Ginny & Georgia Free-spirited Georgia and her two kids, Ginny and Austin, move north in search of a fresh start but find that the road to new beginnings can be bumpy.  Movie: Mumbai Mafia: Police vs The Underworld In 1990s Mumbai, a crime boss and his network wield unchecked power over the city — until the rise of “encounter cops,” who brazenly kill their targets.  For the kids: Astro Boy Astro Boy, a young robot with superpowers, embarks on a dangerous odyssey in search of purpose before returning home to save his loved ones.  Sources: Showmax, Wikipedia and What’s on Netflix. 