LIMPOPO – The lack of scholar transport in Vhembe has seen learners in various areas not attend a single day of schools since the start of the academic year, and parents lay the blame squarely on the Department of Education. Learners from Bennde in Mutale and surrounding areas in Niani have to travel a round trip of 25km to and from school. A parent, Rackson Mukhotho says their children’s safety is at risk because of this, “while the department’s promises to provide them with transport”. A girl learner, who did not want to be named, says walking to school is unsafe. “There are sexual predators on the route. Once, as we walked back from school, a boy was beaten up by other boys. The men catcall us, and force us to do things we don’t want to. If we run away, they chase after us and then we just leave our books behind and run. If we have phones and money, they take it from us,” she said. Another learner complained about the distance they have to travel. “I wake up at 04:00 every morning and leave for school at 05:00, when it is still dark. Then I walk the 25km to school and the same distance back home in the afternoon. I walk with my schoolmates. We cross the Mutale River and walk through the thick bushes. Then we arrive at school at 06:30 for morning classes.” Most of the time, however, they don’t finish their homework out of pure exhaustion. “On rainy days we stay at home because there is no way we can concentrate in class while our clothes are wet. Sometimes it’s hard to concentrate because I feel tired,” he said. The school governing body chairperson of Fhetani High School, Samuel Baloyi, told CV that most learners walk four hours to and from school every day. “As a result, many learners quit school when they reach high school age because they can’t cope with the long distances and effort to get to school.” Baloyi says he spends sleepless nights worrying about the safety of learners. He appealed to the department to provide transport as a matter of urgency. In the meantime, it has also come to light that the lack of scholar transport extends to the Waterberg area. Learners from Weenen Combined School near Mokopane have also not attended a single school day, due to the lack of scholar transport. Education spokesperson, Mike Maringa, says they are aware that some learners have not had transport since the schools opened. He says the department has experienced delays, but that they have appointed service providers across the province to assist in the transportation of learners to schools. 