The Iveco Trakker can now be fitted with B6 armouring. This incorporates a full cab replacement to ensure the ultimate level of protection. An SVI-armoured Iveco Trakker, now offers protection against assault rifles, including AK-47, R5 and R1. It can also be configured for use as an ambulance, fire truck, armoured bus and perhaps it should be considered for Eskom technicians also.  Rather than employing integrated door, fender and pillar armour, SVI’s engineers replaced the entire cab with a fully bespoke – not to mention menacingly styled, crew compartment, effectively eliminating the possibility of ballistic gaps. The design furthermore features flat ballistic glass bolted into each window frame (including gunports in the side windows) to allow for fuss-free replacement should damage be sustained during an attack. The design also protects engine components and includes a tilting nose plate to facilitate routine maintenance. We make a point of listening closely to our customers in order to understand their exact requirements. Yet again, the experienced members of our excellent engineering team have proven they are up to the task, creating yet another innovative product that perfectly meets the needs of our clientele,” said Benny Jiyane, the chairman of SVI Engineering.  Does it add weight? Of course, it does – 500kg to be precise but then, the Trakker 380 4x4s is fitted with a 12.88-litre, six-cylinder diesel engine. It can also be fitted with heavy-duty run flat rings. The first vehicle has just been delivered to the clients and needless to say, they are thrilled. Pricing for the Iveco Trakker B6 armouring solution starts at R649 500 (excluding VAT), though this figure will vary according to the chosen specification. Each unit has a three-month build time, with all work completed at SVI Engineering’s ever-growing manufacturing facility outside Pretoria.  Jaco de Kock, CEO of SVI, said the cab-replacement solution will be available not just on the Trakker but on various other models, too. “Though this new design was specifically implemented on the Iveco Trakker, we have made provision for it to be executed across the full Iveco range, as well as on various other popular truck models. That way, we are able to meet a diverse range of customer requirements,” De Kock said. Source: QuickPic