The new Ranger’s single-cab and SuperCab derivatives will be launched in March. Talking about being spoilt for choice, there will be four single-cab models and six SuperCab ones from which to choose. And wait for it – this includes a Wildtrak 4×4 SuperCab. Doreen Mashinini, the general manager of marketing at Ford South Africa, says, “The bulk of the range is available in XL or a more upmarket XLT specification. We also offer the extensive range of upgrade packs that were introduced on the Ranger double-cab bakkie. This allows owners to personalise their vehicles with a wide range of cosmetic and functional enhancements according to their unique requirements and applications. This will all fulfil the needs of small to medium businesses, large fleet operators, farmers and private customers.” The new Ranger sports an upgraded chassis riding on a 50mm longer wheelbase, along with a 50mm wider track compared to the previous one. The cargo box can now accommodate a standard European pallet between the wheel arches (up to 1 224mm), while the loadbox length runs up to 2 305mm on the single-cabs for maximum loading volume. The payload capacity ranges from 964kg to 1 186kg, depending on the model.  Six tie-down points in the loadbox will ensure secure cargo handling. The Wildtrak SuperCab is equipped with a drop-in bedliner as standard, pockets are moulded into the cargo box sidewalls, which allows owners to use wooden planks to create compartments in the bed, or build a two-tier loading surface. Further practical touches found on all models, which are ideally suited for contractors and tradesmen working on-site, include the integrated clamp pockets, a nifty ruler and cupholders in the tailgate, which transforms it into a useful workbench. Interior comfort and refinement The driver is greeted by an eight-inch customisable digital instrument cluster (model depending), which enables switching between various layouts that show driver-assist technologies, off-road information, tachometer on or off, extra gauges, vehicle settings and even a Calm View that only shows essential vehicle information. An impressive array of clever storage spaces is provided throughout the cabin, comprising the traditional glovebox and a separate lidded storage compartment above, with a recessed horizontal surface between the two that comfortably holds smaller items such as a cellphone.  Technology and safety Ford’s latest-generation SYNC 4A system is standard across the Next-Gen Ranger line-up, including the single-cab and SuperCab models. It is fully integrated into the 10.1 or 12-inch centre screens, providing voice-activated communications, entertainment, information and settings. With always-on connectivity being front of mind, the appearance and functionality of the SYNC system is capable of changing over time with software updates aimed at further enhancing the user experience. To provide a seamless and more intuitive driving experience, many of the driving mode controls have been moved from the dash and centre console to their own dedicated display on the SYNC screen, including those for the rear diff lock and parking sensors. To optimise vehicle performance based on the driving conditions, Ranger XLT models are equipped with push-button selectable drive modes comprising normal, eco, tow/haul and slippery. On the Wildtrak, a rotary dial activates a total of six drive modes, including the additional mud and ruts, and sand settings. Safety features include dynamic stability control incorporating ABS, load adaptive control, rollover mitigation, traction control, hill launch assist and trailer sway control. The 4×4 models also gain hill descent control, with cruise control standard on XLT models and optional on XL.  Two engines, three gearbox options, 4×2 and 4×4 As with the recently launched Next-Gen Ranger double-cab line-up, the new additions to the range are available with updated versions of Ford’s proven 2.0-litre single turbo and biturbo in-line four-cylinder diesel engines. The refined and economical 2.0-litre single turbo unit is common to all XL single-cab models, as well as three XL SuperCab derivatives. It produces 125kW and 405Nm, and is available with a new-generation six-speed manual gearbox or the latest-spec six-speed automatic, and a choice of 4×2 or electronic shift on the fly 4×4 systems. A higher-spec XLT SuperCab 4×2 derivative is also offered with the same engine, paired with the six-speed auto. For customers looking for more power, the renowned 2.0-litre biturbo engine is exclusively available on the SuperCab 4×4 models in a choice of XLT and Wildtrak trim levels. This engine delivers 154kW and 500Nm of torque, and is mated to Ford’s superb 10-speed automatic transmission. Want to customise? Ford offers more than 200 adventure, urban and commercial accessories. Customers can personalise their Rangers to suit their lifestyles and specific requirements. Pricing Pricing starts at R464 200 and includes a four-year/120 000km warranty, four-year/unlimited distance roadside assistance and five-year/unlimited distance corrosion warranty. The recommended service interval is 15 000km or annually, whichever occurs first. Source: MotorPress