We all remember hours of play when we were children, whether it was playing with friends or siblings, keeping ourselves amused, or playing with our parents. Those may be fond memories, but they laid the foundation, for us and our children. Play has so many benefits for children, beyond close connection that are fostered during a structured game or even a fun rough and tumble! According to the LEGO® 2022 Play Well Study*, parents agree that play provides clear benefits for families, with 98% saying that it creates stronger family bonds, improves family wellbeing, as well as making their family happier, and helping them relax. Parents and children want to play more than they do already, however everyday responsibilities such as work or housework are key barriers to this, often overlooked by time spent on technology – by children and parents. “Family connections are so important, as they reassure everyone in the family unit that they have people they can rely on in challenging times,” says Yvonne Mokhudung Segabutle, educational psychologist. “That sense of belonging is important to a person’s mental health and wellbeing and can even be linked to better academic performance. Family members are an essential source of affection and encouragement too – with those given even more meaning during play, whether it’s building a LEGO set together, or splashing around in the swimming pool as a family,” she says. In addition to forging closer family bonds, play helps children learn the life skills they need, such as confidence, self-esteem, resilience, and curiosity. It also helps them to not be afraid of failure, as experimenting, imagining, and building their own creations helps them realise just what’s possible if they’re brave enough to try new things. “Parents spending time with their children to nurture these skills through play also builds trust and friendship, which is an important foundation and background for difficult conversations when needed,” adds Miroslav Riha, country manager for LEGO company in South Africa. “Opening these doors of communication early on is vitally important for parent-child relationships through the tricky tween and teen years,” he says. “It’s worth remembering that even these age groups can be gently led into discussing the issues that are troubling them, whether it’s through building an advanced LEGO set together, or playing a sport as a family,” concludes Riha. *The 2022 LEGO Play Well Study builds on the success of the 2018 and 2020 studies, which were designed to provide a bank of compelling insights and data about child, parent, and adult perceptions and behaviors on different topics. A 20 minute online quantitative survey was conducted across 35 markets between January and March 2022, asked to a total of 57,374 respondents, including 32,781 parents with children aged 1-12 years old, and 24,593 children aged 5-12.