Crawling was removed from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s (CDC) baby milestone checklist last year. Here’s why and what parents should know about this exciting – but often overlooked – baby skill. To the surprise of many parents and paediatric development experts, crawling, which was previously considered a milestone reached around nine months, was removed in 2022 from The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s main milestone checklists for babies. Walking was also moved up to 18 months (from 12 months), and talking is now listed as a 15-month milestone rather than a 12-month milestone. However, according to some experts, the changes, such as removing crawling, inadvertently send the message to parents and caregivers that certain milestones no longer matter, when that simply isn’t the case. While the changes to the checklist were intended to improve early detection of developmental delays, some experts believe the new checklist will have the opposite effect. There is an ‘unintended possibility’ that the changes will result in referral delays, delayed evaluations, a longer course of treatment, and an impact on subsequent developmental milestones. For paediatric physiotherapists, the fear of downplaying crawling on milestone checklists is that parents will lose valuable time in bringing their baby in and getting on a waiting list for early intervention services, thus missing a critical window in their infant’s development. There are many misconceptions about the significance of crawling. It’s not so much that a lack of crawling is always a ‘red flag’, but rather that crawling is a significant milestone with benefits to so many developmental domains that impact higher level skill development, and that crawling is part of ‘typical development.’ Hence, there is a reason when it isn’t happening. Crawling is a gross motor skill, which refers to movements involving the body’s large muscles. These skills may include sitting, standing, walking, running, maintaining balance, and changing positions as your baby grows.
According to experts, most babies begin crawling between the ages of five and eleven months, but there is a wide range. It’s important to note that this particular gross motor milestone has a lot of variabilities. Some babies skip crawling entirely or engage in a crawling variation before walking upright. Traditional crawling, also known as reciprocal crawling, involves your baby moving forward on both knees and both hands. This requires them to maintain balance while simultaneously moving the opposite hand and leg forward. Other variations include bum-scooting, army/commando crawling, bear-crawling (where the knees and elbows remain extended, similar to a crab walk), and even rolling. Learning to crawl is about more than just getting around or getting closer to walking. Crawling helps babies gather and process information about their surroundings. Crawling has numerous physical, cognitive, and sensory benefits for children, such as: Then there are the more complex benefits, such as developing the vestibular system, which is concerned with balance and spatial orientation, and postural control, which is concerned with how your central nervous system processes information and converts it into motor outputs, such as activating specific muscles. Crawling on different textures can also help babies with sensory and tactile inputs. Yes, for the most part. According to experts, if your baby gets around, they get the necessary input. Rolling or bum scooting would fit the bill because they still allow a child to move around their environment to explore, play, and interact. One of the primary differences is that when a baby crawls with their palms pressed against the floor to support their weight, they develop both fine motor and gross-motor skills. It also aids in the development of power and coordination in the hands – as well as strength in the shoulder muscles and core. Firstly, according to literature, there is no convincing evidence that children who skip crawling are more likely to have other developmental problems. With that said, experts agree you don’t need to be concerned as long as your baby has the motor power, muscle tone, coordination, and motivation to move themselves through the environment in some way. Paediatricians look for low muscle tone as well as delays in other gross-motor milestones such as head control and sitting independently. The most common symptom of low muscle tone is a baby who appears to slip through your hands when you hold them from their underarms. Other signs of low tone include a baby who struggles to feed or has a weak cry. Families should consult with their healthcare provider if their baby’s movements are asymmetrical or one-sided. Mention it at your next visit if your baby seems to lack awareness or motivation to explore their environment or connect socially with others. Tummy time, which can begin as soon as the baby’s umbilical stump falls off, develops core strength and power. It also aids in developing motor skills, starting with head control and progressing to sitting, standing, and walking. Experts recommend using a firm foam mat to work on belly mobility. Also, don’t be afraid to get down on the floor with your baby.