January is here, and we’re looking forward to a great 2023. More often than not, we’ll be making the most of the fantastic weather and the setting for our get-togethers will be outdoors.  From parties to sit-down dinners, cocktail brunches to family picnics, we’re going to want to focus on fresh and light foods that are easy to prepare and enjoy alfresco. According to Rediscover Dairy, putting together a sumptuous cheese board is simple, and takes just a few minutes of preparation.  You also don’t need to worry about load shedding! Let’s not forget that cheese also brings a delicious flair to your festive salads, vegetable dishes, potato bakes and gourmet ’braaibroodjies’. Whether they are blue, hard, semi-hard, semi-soft, soft and fresh or soft-ripened, the cheeses of your choice can be combined with crackers and breads; fresh fruits, herbs and vegetables; dried fruits, seeds and nuts; olives, peppers and pickles; sweet and savoury marmalades, jams and preserves; cold and smoked meats and fish.  At celebration picnics, parties or alfresco dinners, the cheese board is a gorgeous centrepiece echoing the freshness and abundance of summer, and is an excellent accompaniment to wine, cider, gin cocktails and non-alcoholic alternatives. “Cheese is a favourite, nutrient-packed food for children, and good for the whole family”, says Maretha Vermaak, a registered dietitian at Rediscover Dairy.  What’s not to love, considering: 1. In a small pan add some salted butter and heat on high, when hot pop in your drained capers and fry until nice and crispy. Set aside.
2. Get out a round or rectangular wooden board.
3. Using a pallet knife or small spatula start dolloping/smearing your cream cheese onto the board. You can create a pattern by placing the dollops in rows :)  Cover the whole board.
4. Tear your smoke trout up into small ribbons and start placing them on top of your cream cheese.
5. Garnish with fresh dill, a squeeze of lemon and salt & pepper.
6. Serve with crackers. Enjoy! For more dairy ideas join the Rediscover Dairy Facebook page: www.facebook.com/RediscoverDAIRY