Here are some of the new releases you can look forward to from Penguin Random House:  Mirage by David Ralph Viviers ‘As a child, I’d spend my afternoons reading astronomy books and writing out facts about
stars and planets into journals, homemade with pieces of fax paper stapled together. As you can probably guess, playing sport wasn’t my first priority.’  You may know the face. David Viviers is one of South Africa’s well-known actors, but now he is a published author as well. And his writing is every bit as good has his acting!  We All Want Impossible Things by Catherine Newman ‘We All Want Impossible Things is similar to a Memoir, in that it’s inspired by my own experience of losing my best friend.’ Author Catherine Newman chats about writing fiction versus writing memoirs, taking inspiration from real life, and her favourite scene from her first novel for adults, We All Want Impossible Things.  A Spell of Good Things by Ayobami Adebayo ‘This was a place I thought I knew. How had I been so blind?’  The seed of a story starts with the glimpse of a shadow, writes Ayóbámi Adébáyò.  Trees of Kruger by Braam van Wyk ‘That I might still discover trees unknown to science in some of the deep forested gorges of
Pondoland was exciting to me.’ Braam van Wyk is emeritus professor of botany at the University of Pretoria. A leading expert on plant taxonomy, he has had an abiding interest in making botany accessible to the general public, and has authored more than 350 publications about southern African vegetation and flora. He writes here about where it all began.  The BEE Billionaires by Chris Bishop ‘The world of black economic empowerment is a confusing world that is as murky as it is
fascinating.’ Chris Bishop, veteran journalist and the founding editor of Forbes Africa and Billionaire Tomorrow, describes the process he went through in writing a book that questions the impact of one of the biggest economic experiments in Africa that began a quarter of a century ago: black economic empowerment. For more information, visit Penguin Random House.