LIMPOPO – A young man’s skill, innovation and business savvy have added value to the community of Shayandima outside Thohoyandou. Oscar Madzuhe’s construction workshop, My Landscape, gives the community access to stepping stones. Oscar told CV that he chose not to sit around and complain about unemployment, but instead, made a plan to never go to bed hungry and started his business in 2021 after seeing a gap in the market in the area. “Most people are now building beautiful homes using stone tiles to decorate their homes and I am here to give them the best service around the Vhembe district. I wanted to bridge the construction gap in the Vhembe region and decided to start the process by opening a construction company. I want to attract new business opportunities in order to maintain a sustainable business to prevent further job losses in South Africa. I believe in service and effectiveness,” said Madzuhe. He said My Landscape has changed his life. “I promise friendly, good quality, and efficient service. I am proud that I have created jobs for four permanent employees, and six casual workers,” he said.  He said he manufactures stepping stones which are used to pave driveways, and walkways and also to decorate gardens. “I started the company in April 2021 with my half-brother Thuso Lukoto. The growth is amazing and we work with local landscapers. Because we are in the fourth industrial revolution, we have to use technology to our advantage. We advertise on social media and it’s also convenient for our clients because they get to avoid travelling and save petrol,” he explains. His wish in the next five years is to compete with the biggest stone tiles manufacturing companies in Limpopo. “I make sure that I give my customers satisfactory work, and I believe I am one of the best in Vhembe. I make sure that I always have stock available,” he said. He further said the biggest challenge is manufacturing capacity, the demand for the product is high and we are unable to manufacture at the required rate. “Since starting we were able to buy more equipment to manufacture, but it’s still not enough. We also would love to get a bigger space to work because we are currently working in our backyard. What I love most is that I meet new people and travel between Gauteng and Limpopo to supply clients. Our goal is to get more material and a bigger manufacturing site,” he concludes. 