The New Year is a time for friends and parties making sharing a drink part of the traditions. Enjoy Roku Japanese Gin’s four-season cocktail this summer as part of your summer fun traditions. Uniquely bottled in a hexagonal glass vessel, Roku is a distinctive spirit from Japan’s revered Suntory brand; one of the country’s most awarded spirits producers, mastering the skill of making gin since 1936. As one of the first Japanese gins to hit South African shores, Roku offers a native edge in the country’s trending industry with a rare flavour base inspired by its home. Translating to the word ‘six’ in Japanese, Roku is a crafted gin created with six botanicals sourced from Japan. These high-quality botanicals, harvested from the best growing areas in Japan each season, include sencha and gyokuro teas, celebrating summer, as well as the Sakura flower and leaf, which bloom in spring. Showcasing the unique flavours Japan produces in autumn, Sansho pepper adds a unique taste, as well as the peel of yuzu fruit, which finishes off the harmonious flavours of Roku Japanese Gin, and represents the winter botanical. Recipe by Suntory. In a process unique to Roku, the six Japanese botanicals are distilled using a selection of different pot stills, each chosen to ensure the best flavour is extracted from each botanical. The result is a complex yet harmonious gin with a smooth and silky texture. Meticulous attention to detail – the signature of Japanese craftsmanship – also extends to the bottle. Roku’s bottle is cast in a hexagonal shape, representing each Japanese botanical, and is finished with delicate embossing. The Japanese kanji symbol for six is printed on the label, which is made of traditional washi paper and finished with subtle touches of gold. Roku can also be enjoyed on the rocks or in a Japanese Gin & Tonic. Prepared with extra care, the Japanese Gin & Tonic is served with ice and slices of ginger to complement the refreshing and citrus top notes of yuzu. More than a simple gin & tonic, the Japanese Gin & Tonic reflects the spirit of Japanese hospitality, Omotenashi, where people are encouraged to pour each other’s Roku Gin as part of the refreshing Japanese ritual to share the spirit, and enjoy it with friends. Roku Japanese Gin is available at a recommended retail price of R299 in major retailers nationally; Makro, Pick n Pay, Checkers, and selected TOPS at Spar.  You can also order online through Takealot, Norman Goodfellows and others.