There is more to a Mercedes – any Mercedes – than just the prestige that comes with the badge. It presents style, class and innovation, and this new S Class E is exceptional on all levels. The building of the Affalterbach reputation started 52 years ago, and since then, those AMG letters on any Mercedes have become the benchmark for luxury and brutal performance. Today, the new Mercedes-AMG S 63 E Performance with AMG hybrid technology once again sets the benchmark in the segment.  It combines the AMG 4.0-litre V8 Biturbo engine with the AMG-specific hybrid powertrain and a new expansion stage of the AMG battery (HPB). The new HPB 150 offers the same high performance and directly cooled battery cell as the well-known HPD 80. The focus of the powertrain, however, is less on electric range and more on best-in-class performance. With 590kW and 1 430Nm, this saloon accelerates from 0 to 100km/h in 3.3 seconds, topping out at 290km/h. “The S-Class has always had a very special meaning for us. In 1971, it made the AMG brand famous overnight with its legendary appearance in the Spa 24-hour race. This was undoubtedly an important foundation stone for our rise as a performance and sports car brand with global significance. With E Performance, we are now opening a new chapter. Never before has a luxury saloon so perfectly combined best-in-class performance with superior comfort and virtually silent electric driving. In this way, we are also opening up to highly discerning target groups who see Mercedes-AMG as the performance luxury brand of the 21st  century. With the most powerful S-Class of all time, however, we are not only going our own technical way, as is characteristic of AMG, but also making a strong visual statement. For the first time, the S-Class Saloon also has our AMG-specific radiator grille, so the brand affiliation is closer than ever before,” says Philipp Schiemer, chairperson of the board of management of Mercedes-AMG GmbH.  This car presents an expressive exterior and interior design. The MBUX infotainment system includes various AMG- and hybrid-specific displays and functions. These include the displays in the instrument cluster, on the multimedia central display in portrait orientation in the centre console and the optional heads-up display. The instrument cluster view can be personalised with different display styles and individually selectable main views. Source: MotorPress 