POLOKWANE – Getting your kids back into school mode after the December holidays can be an exhausting thought. Whether your child is starting a new school, grade or getting back to school after the holidays, the process might feel like a chore but it is a necessary one. Easing back after the holidays can also be a mix of emotions that range from feeling excited to scared, happy to concerned and eager to anxious about the first days back to school. Nirvana Primary Gr R teacher Nyeleti Mabunda shared the follwing tips for parents who might be feeling slightly overwhelmed. 1. Adjust their sleep pattern so they can sleep early and wake up early. “A bedtime routine embodies the characteristics for development of the young ones. It is important that their sleep schedule is adjusted at least a week before school resumes as this will not only help children adjust but it will also help them stay awake in class and not feel tired during lessons,” she said. 2. Take them along to buy uniform and stationery together. “This will help stimulate their brains to be aware that school is starting soon and it will keep them excited.” 3. Help them mentally by talking about school. “Children do experience some amount of stress or anxiety that is school related. Find out what troubles them by directly addressing them since they have knowledge about their educational experiences. Once a week play educational games with them or ask them what they look forward to in the new year of schooling.” 4. Limit their social/playing time.
“Kids can play all day if they are not monitored and this can be disruptive to their sleeping patterns, cause neck pain and other related issues.” 5. Encourage questions
“Encourage any questions that kids may have regarding the next term. What will remain constant? What exactly will change? Schools frequently offer guidance on transitions. If the school hasn’t done so, it could be worthwhile to ask them if they have any material they can provide. Above all, make sure your child understands that there are no untouchable topics. Set up conversation times throughout the school year; it will ease your back-to-school worries.” 