South Africa’s energy crisis seems to be getting worse by the day, with consumers having to put up with more loadshedding in 2022 than ever before. Apart from the inconvenience factor, persistent and lengthy power cuts can cause severe damage to properties and electrical equipment. Undesirable ramifications of persistent loadshedding include burglaries, theft, robberies, fires and damage to electric appliances. The good news is that home, and household contents insurance policies provide cover for the policyholder’s property and household contents such as appliances, furniture, paintings, musical instruments and a host of other items. Short-term insurance claims have increased dramatically this year, but unfortunately, not all insurance claims are approved and paid out. According to Adams and Adams Attorneys’ GoLegal website, recent statistics show a spike in rejections of insurance claims – particularly short-term insurance claims. Not all rejections are legitimate, but challenging them may prove expensive and time-consuming. For this reason, many homeowners and tenants are reluctant to take out home insurance and household contents insurance policies. However, with a little forethought, it is possible to improve your chances of succeeding in your claim against damage caused by load shedding. Golegal offers the following tips: Given the importance of the insured items, you need to take steps to improve your chances of lodging a successful claim in the event of any loss or damage. These steps include: When you need to claim, it is critical to report and lodge the claim immediately after the incident and be sure to provide all the required documents and information. This will enable your insurer to process the claim without unnecessary delays. If your claim has been rejected, you need to establish the reasons for the rejection and consider possible ways of challenging the decision. You can start with an internal appeal to the insurer, clearly stating why you believe the claim should be entertained. If this is unsuccessful, you can approach the Short-Term Insurance Ombud’s Office. Both processes can be carried out without any legal assistance. However, it is usually advisable to obtain legal assistance for internal appeals and appeals to the ombud for the following reasons: It is usually advisable to have short-term insurance policies in place – particularly after the recent floods and the ongoing loadshedding. However, you should not simply concede the validity of rejections without seeking legal advice. The above steps do not guarantee that a claim will be approved and paid out, but they do improve your chances of claiming successfully. Writer : Sarah-Jane Meyer