Escape to a world where slow living is the order of the day and truly unwind while you enjoy gracious living and old world charm combined with modern convenience at Cape Country Routes’ elegant Evergreen Manor & Spa. Built in 1904, the gorgeous manor is set in the historical core of Stellenbosch in the Western Cape and offers a unique experience of friendly luxury and warm hospitality in the heart of the Cape Winelands. The spacious guest rooms are individually decorated with fine period and antique furnishings and boast 15 en-suite double and king/twin rooms with a separate bath and shower. The bathrooms are fitted with underfloor heating and the rooms have satellite TV, a mini-bar, tea and coffee facility, electronic safe and free Wi-Fi. Read a book or enjoy a cup of tea in one of two lounges or have a catnap on the sun deck next to the swimming pool.  The spacious patio overlooking the garden and pool area is also a beautiful spot to sit and simply take in the surrounding beauty. Spoil yourself with a spa experience at the intimate Evergreen Spa, where the therapists will pamper you with various body treatments, aroma body envelopments and specialised skin care treatments, using the world-renowned QMS Medicosmetics range of products. Take a quick, 4-minute stroll into the centre of town and spend the day trying out the many reputable restaurants and visiting art galleries, museums and historical buildings. The Stellenbosch Botanical Garden is a must for nature lovers, only a minute away, while those looking for some exercise can cycle or walk the scenic mountain paths behind the nearby sporting complex of the university. Golf enthusiasts will find 10 top-class golf courses in the area – three of them in Stellenbosch. Surrounded by many famous wine estates, Stellenbosch is the perfect base for exploring the entire region – Cape Town, Table Mountain, Robben Island, Franschhoek, Gordon’s Bay and the Whale Route – are all within 15 to 50 minutes’ drive away; and it is only 30 km from Cape Town International Airport.