Teaching your child mindfulness can help them better concentrate, deal with stress, control their feelings, and cultivate a more optimistic outlook. The practise of mindfulness has been shown to improve attention, lower stress levels, and increase one’s ability to regulate emotions while also increasing feelings of compassion and empathy. Many believe mindfulness can be an effective psychotherapy treatment for adults, children, and adolescents who struggle with aggressive behaviour, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), or mental health problems such as anxiety. According to Maria Hersey, a director of education, “mindful awareness helps children with self-regulation, optimism, and planning and organisational skills”. “A significant body of research demonstrates that children benefit cognitively and academically from cultivating mindful awareness and understanding its component parts. It makes it easier for them to follow through and organise their priorities,” says Hersey. Regardless of whether or not children are exposed to lessons on mindfulness in school, parents can and should teach their children some of the same concepts taught by teachers in the classroom. They should also consider looking into activities that teach children mindfulness. The following are some methods that can be used to teach mindfulness at home: Encourage your child to take a deep breath and try to calm themselves for three to five minutes during the “brain break”. This helps children quiet their minds, be present, and just focus. When it’s time for homework, when there’s a stressful situation going on, or even just when kids are shifting gears from one activity to the next, parents can encourage their children to take a mental break. The practise of mindful awareness during everyday activities, such as walking and eating, is another lesson that teaches children how to be fully present in the moment and not to worry about things like the math test they have tomorrow or the birthday party they have on the weekend. During “listening walks”, parents should ask their children what sounds they hear, what the sounds remind them of, and how these sounds help the children appreciate a happy memory or experience. Are you having a hard time getting your child to relax and unwind? For children aged 5 to 10, there is a free app available on the App Store called Stop, Breathe, and Think Kids. It offers a variety of activities for children to participate in that promote concentration, restful sleep, and calm moments throughout the day. Users are incentivised to check into their feelings through the use of emojis, and those who successfully complete their mindful missions are rewarded with stickers.