Toyota South Africa Motors (TSAM) has been conducting extensive research and development into the enhancement of its vehicle security systems on these vehicles in particular. There are, according to Toyota, three modes: CAN attack, fob relaying, and a combination of forced entry and key cloning. The CAN attack happens when the vehicle’s control area network (CAN) is infiltrated using highly sophisticated electronic equipment to gain entry and then access the computer system to start the engine. Fob relaying is achieved using high-tech receivers and transmitters to remotely read the vehicle’s security key while in the possession of the owner, thereby allowing the attacker to unlock and start the vehicle. The third, a combination of forced entry and key cloning, is executed using advanced techniques and equipment to disable the vehicle’s alarm system, and then clone its security key. The enhancements have also been reviewed and evaluated by VSS Administration, an independent South African organisation that specialises in vehicle security and automotive systems.  TSAM’s senior vice president of sales and marketing, Leon Theron, said, “We as Toyota are committed to developing safe and reliable vehicles and we will continue with our research and development to further enhance our vehicle security systems. I would also like to add that vehicle owner will not negate the warranty on their vehicles should they elect to fit an aftermarket security device – provided these are installed correctly by a reputable fitment centre.” Theron added that customers who own the vehicle models mentioned below can take them to their nearest dealership for security enhancements from the first week of December. He concluded that new vehicles as well as those arriving at dealers for servicing will automatically receive these enhancements. These will all be carried out at no cost to the customer. These are the affected vehicles: Hilux Legend models from 2019, all Fortuner models from 2016, the Land Cruiser Prado (VX and VXL models from 2017) and Lexus LX 450 & 570. For all the other models using keyless entry, but not mentioned above, customers are recommended to purchase a Faraday Pouch for their keys (available at dealers). Alternatively, they can consult their dealer to either have their vehicle alarm recalibrated in a way that prevents fob relaying or set the alarm using the remote in a specific manner that prevents this. Source: MotorPress