LIMPOPO – The provincial police commissioner, Lieutenant General Thembi Hadebe, says the actions of a police constable, seen in a video having sex with her then 10-year-old son, are deplorable and deserves harsh condemnation. The video in question went viral on social media earlier today (January 26) and has been met with outrage. Police spokesperson Brigadier Motlafela Mojapelo said soon after becoming aware of the video, Hadebe ordered the Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences Unit to conduct an immediate probe into the incident. “A case of rape of a minor with additional charges of creating and distributing child pornography and sexual grooming of a child were opened on Friday (January 20) and the suspect was arrested on the same day,” a statement read. Mojapelo said internal police processes have already been implemented following her arrest and will run parallel with the criminal investigation that has been taken over by the Independent Police Investigative Directorate. “The actions of this woman are deplorable and deserve harsh condemnation. Even though the suspect allegedly committed this crime when she was still a Public Service Act employee of the SAPS, means she should have known that her unbecoming behaviour deserves harsh consequences. The SAPS does not have the space for such people who tarnish its image,” Hadebe said. In addition to the charges, the woman will be subjected to immediate internal processes in terms of the South African Police Service Disciplinary Regulations. The woman (40) appeared in the Marble Hall Magistrate’s Court on Monday (January 23) and was remanded in custody until January 30. The child has been taken to a place of safety where he will receive psychological treatment and assistance. “The identity of the woman cannot be divulged to protect the child. We strongly urge the public to refrain from sharing the video as perpetrators of crimes against children will be dealt with accordingly,” he said. Meanwhile, the DA in Limpopo said it is concerning that a police officer whom the community relies on for safety, is the one said to have perpetrated these acts. “There is no place for officers in the SAPS system who prey on children and make themselves guilty of such acts,” the DA provincial spokesperson on transport and community safety, Katlego Phala said. 