POLOKWANE – Hundreds of frustrated parents gathered at Greenside Primary School today (January 10) with very little hope that their children will receive placement for the 2023 academic year that starts on Wednesday (January 11). The issue according to them, lies with the lack of proper communication channels from officials of the department who are meant to assist them. “We were told that we would be receiving placement today and that’s the reason we’re here, but all of a sudden, things have changed and we’re told they are capturing those who had not done so at the department. At some point we were told that they are only dealing with placements of Gr R, 1 and 8 learners,” says an agitated parent.  The Department of Education’s head of communications, Matome Moremi Taueatswala told the Polokwane Review that parents misunderstood the circular provided about what’s expected of them today. “We stated clearly when 2023 application processes started last year that parents should apply on time. Again, in our latest circular, we communicated that we would be re-looking at appeals, and placing learners at qualifying schools, and only taking Gr R, 1 and 8 learners,” he explained. After having waited hours from the early this morning, scores were still waiting at 14:00 with hope that change would arise. Instead, new information arose from administrators stating there had been a technical glitch which erased identity information captured during the application processes in 2022, which meant some of those who had been affected were set back and had to once again provide their information. Taueatswala confirmed the technical difficulty and attributed it to power cuts that would occur at the circuit office while the application is being processed. He says less than 10 individuals were affected by the inconvenience. “They are being prioritised and need not to reapply,” he said. Taueatswala said the department will first process applications received between May and July last year. “Parents who applied for internal grades last year will be assisted between Thursday and Friday.” He added that all other learners who are yet to be placed due to various reasons ranging from relocation of parents, late application and school of choice, among others, will be assisted from Monday (January 16). “The department is pleading with parents to exercise patience and afford the department space to deal with the placements,” he said. 