You may have thought that swimming pool maintenance is only important in summer. Instead, it is a year-round job and an essential part of owning a pool. A typical pool will require 30 to 60 minutes of cleaning each week, depending on the level of debris – leaves, dirt, bugs – in the water. Without a proper maintenance routine, your pool could turn green and other problems could include broken filters and algae build-up – making it unusable. A robot vacuum like Barracuda or Kreepy Krauly will clean the bottom and sides of the pool for you, but for a pristine pool, you need to skim leaves and debris off the water’s surface daily. In addition to skimming, you must scrub the sides of the pool at least every second week to prevent algae build-up. For particularly stubborn spots, fill an old sock with chlorine granules and let it sit against the spot for a few hours before scrubbing again. The pool filter removes impurities from the water, such as dirt, leaves, insects and other small objects. Clean the filter at least once a week by turning off the pump, removing the filter cap on the pool deck, the lift out the filter basket and remove any debris before replacing everything. Once a month, you need to backwash the filter to clean out the system pipes. Set the filter control to backwash, then remove the leaf basket and clean it out. Then turn on the pump and let it run until the water flowing from the waste pipe is clear. Be sure to keep the water topped up during backwashing. For optimum operation, install a timer and set the pump to run for at least six hours daily. Maintaining the correct chemical levels is one of the critical aspects of pool maintenance. Improperly balanced chemicals make the water murky, cause skin and eye irritation, and turn your pool into a breeding ground for bacteria. It can also cause equipment components to corrode, resulting in expensive repairs. Fortunately, saltwater pool chlorinators take most of the guesswork out of keeping pool chemicals balanced, although you may still need to add other chemicals, for example, to ensure the correct acid/alkalinity levels. A saltwater chlorinator uses an electrolytic cell to sanitise your swimming pool when salt (sodium chloride) is added to your pool water. The cell converts the chloride in the salt water into chlorine. This is an extremely efficient and cost-effective method of sanitising your pool. Saltwater pools also help to eliminate red eyes, skin irritations and harsh chemical odours, which often occur in conventional chlorinated pools. The level of salt in the water is so low it is almost undetectable to taste. It is less than the amount of salt in a teardrop, so it is gentle on the skin and a pleasure to swim in. The chlorinator control unit allows you to manage the chlorine level in the pool. Certain models can also be connected to a pool automation system so you can control it with a remote or a mobile device. Ideally, the water should be tested at least once a week – even if you have installed a saltwater chlorinator. That way, you can ensure all the chemicals are balanced and detect possible problems. Testing kits and pool salt are available from your local pool outlet. The ideal swimming pool water level is halfway up the opening of the skimmer. If the water is too low, add the necessary amount of water using municipal water or potable water from a storage tank or borehole. If the water level is too high, you can drain the excess through backwashing. Once the appropriate water level is reached, remember to recheck the chemical levels. The water level fluctuations will have put them out of balance. Add the necessary chemicals and retest after a few hours. If you want all the advantages of a swimming pool without the hassle of taking care of it, you should consider appointing a pool maintenance professional to do it for you. In addition to regular cleaning, a pool professional will have a supply of chlorine, acid, algaecide and other chemicals on hand. This means you won’t have to keep hazardous chemicals on site or shop for the right chemicals for your pool. If you have ever experienced equipment failure linked to improper water balance, you will know that pool companies can void warranties if they find corrosion due to incorrect chemical use. From equipment replacement to liner changes – damages can be expensive. However, prevention is better than cure, so employing a pool professional could save you money in the long run. Even if you choose the DIY option, you may not have the proper knowledge to care for your pool’s mechanical equipment, such as pumps, filters and heating systems. Therefore, at least once a year, you should have a pool service professional check your equipment. Before they arrive, take a thorough look at your pool and compile a list of any possible problems to give them an idea of where to start. These could include: If you don’t notice anything amiss, the yearly service appointment may seem like a waste of money, and you may be tempted to cancel. However, pool professionals are trained to notice problems that may not be obvious to you. Detecting and fixing a minor problem now could help you avoid more significant problems in future. Incorporating these pool maintenance tips into a regular cleaning routine will allow you to spend more time swimming than doing chores. Writer : Sarah-Jane Meyer