Whether it’s a power-packed breakfast you need for your sporty teen, a delicious lunchbox treat for your adventurous middle grader, or a welcoming afterschool meal for your six-year-old who has just started big school, eggs are the perfect protein to get your kids off to a good start this new year. Thanks to their inherent iodine, protein and vitamins A, D, E and B12, eggs eaten for breakfast may boost a child’s satiety levels and reduce hunger during their busy school day, helping to improve concentration, stabilise energy levels and reduce the need for extra snacks. Studies have shown that these specific benefits of eating eggs can further help regulate and maintain a healthy weight in children. This is vital, given that the youth are among the highest consumers of sugar and, aside from being rich in vitamins and nutrients, eggs are free from added sugar. Eggs also contain choline, an essential ‘back-to-school nutrient’ that acts as a building block for the essential brain chemical, acetylcholine. This neurotransmitter supports attention span and learning, memory, mood and motivation, muscle control, and other important brain and nervous system functions. One to two eggs per day meet the daily protein requirement in younger children, supplemented with further protein intake from either additional eggs or other choline sources, such as meat, poultry, fish, dairy products, seeds, nuts and whole grains, in tweens and teens. Undoubtedly, one of the best features of eggs is just how quick and easy they are to prepare – an absolute win when it comes to managing hangry kids! Our egg recipes this month are simple, and ideal for after-school lunches, as snacks when they arrive home with several kids in tow, or even as a dinner option with a side salad. Like EGGcellentFood on Facebook and follow them on Instagram (eggcellentfoodsa). For further information and recipes visit www.sapoultry.co.za  Cheats Welsh Rarebit  Traditional Welsh Rarebit is made with a bechamel sauce, which can be laborious. Our cheats version uses eggs and is quick and easy. Perfect for after school snacks or an accompaniment with soup for a light supper. Serves 2 Preparation time: 5 minutes Cooking time: 8 minutes Ingredients: Method:  Croque-Madame  Serves 2 Preparation time: 10 minutes Cooking time:  25 minutes Ingredients: For the cheese sauce For the Croque-Madame For the eggs Method: 