Over the decades, a new code of housing types or architecture – particularly within the sectional title realm, has crept into the South African real estate vocabulary. These terms may be confusing to potential buyers in defining what type of property they own or are looking to buy. Often developers name the complex they are building based on the architecture or design of the homes within: e.g. Victoria Villas, Seaside Condos, and Bush Bungalows, which clearly indicates the type of building. But not all complex names are that clear. For example, in an online residential property search, where the potential buyer is specifically looking for a type of design, clusters, townhouses, condos, duplexes and the like are mainly grouped into one category. There are also cases where a home is advertised as a condo on one site, but on another, it’s referred to as a townhouse. This is not necessarily a bad thing because often, a potential buyer can be swayed from a particular architectural design by these crossovers. While many dwellings do not fit neatly into the categories they feature in, knowing how to exclude what is not being sought, or defining what is may help refine a search. Traditionally and historically, this is a one-level building, having an exterior patio and a front garden or terrace, on a spacious stand in a secluded area, or at least some distance from the nearest neighbour. Traditionally they are built to house a single family (unlike condos) and are often part of a gated community development of similarly designed homes. This is defined as one unit that is part of a larger building of other condos. The owner of a unit has no financial interest in the land or the buildings. Condos can also be minimalist to high-end. The surrounding exterior space is shared among all condo areas and maintained by a Body Corporate or Home Owners Association. Condos are often viewed as popular rentals but differ from apartments in that the owner is usually the landlord. Defined as a residence often rented out, an apartment is part of a large residential building usually owned by a single entity and under a property management company. These homes are private properties built in groupings – usually of four – within close proximity to each other. They are often terraced houses, semi-detached, or even a bungalow. All portions of the cluster development are (generally) freehold titles, and costs are for the owner’s account. Each individual property shares two or more walls with at least one other property in the cluster grouping. The rear wall of a cluster house is also commonly shared with the cluster development behind it, and the units contained within one cluster usually share the garden or are allocated a portion of the garden. Townhouse ownership includes the outside structure and inside unit. They will likely include garaging within a complex of 20-30 townhouses. A unit can be either a semi (meaning comprising one floor) or a duplex, which has two floors. Upkeep of these areas is the owner’s responsibility, although the greater common areas are usually maintained by a Body Corporate or Home Owners Association. This is a single residential structure that features two separate living spaces, usually up and downstairs. They can also be split into two different units with separate entrances on a single property. It is common for one owner to live in one of the units and rent out the other. This single-unit type usually has an internal or external staircase. These are not common in South Africa. They are homes built as part of a continuous row in a uniform style, sharing side walls. Their facades are typically identical, and the interior layout is the same, if not closely similar. Each home has a separate entrance but may share a driveway, usually more than one storey, with a private rear garden or patio. A small cottage single-storey home, although some are two storeys that have been created by an attic conversion. These dwellings typically feature sloped roofs, open floor plans and a large front window. Many have a front patio and are usually located in the middle of a property with a surrounding garden. A relatively new term, the hanging villa apartment is a unit within a large apartment building, usually built at holiday destinations, where two apartments share a balcony. The hanging concept is based on the balconies of adjacent floors being staggered so that upper units do not block the lower ones. Growing in popularity with a developing social movement behind the concept, the tiny home is an independent structure sized between 100-400 sq feet. Many are prefabricated with custom-built interior and exterior features. These are typically two houses attached to one another, sharing a common wall on one erf. Each home is sold separately, although they sometimes share a common garage and driveway, a private road and even a swimming pool. These are homes made from used or new steel shipping containers. Generally, two sizes are in play, but a number can be grouped together to create larger living quarters. Many owners have ensured an eco-friendly design but have building codes and standards that must be complied with. Growing in global popularity, a dome home is shaped as a sphere or ellipsoid and usually uses a shell framework in its construction. They enclose more volume under less surface area, require fewer building materials and are resistant to wind. They are exceptionally wind-resistant and are, therefore, great for areas that experience intense storms. With a distinctive steeply-triangular roof, which often starts at the ground, the A-frame house usually has less living space than many traditional homes. However, they offer extensive window spaces in the front and rear and typically have at least one and a half levels of living space. A balcony from the loft area is a common feature. The types of houses listed above are readily available for purchasing and renting in South Africa. Writer : Kerry Dimmer