LIMPOPO – Limpopo Police Commissioner Lieutenant General Thembi Hadebe found that considerable achievements, including the arrest of suspected criminals by the local police during the 2022 festive season, were work contributed by the communities in various forms. While the wait for the national office to release overall crime statistics for the said period is ongoing, which will be followed by those in the province at a date yet to be confirmed, Hadebe says their collection of data makes it more apparent that community involvement plays an increasingly important role in the fight against crime through Community Policing Forums as well as ordinary citizens who report crime as it happens even with the risk that comes with exposing criminal information. The provincial head was joined by her top management from across Limpopo’s five districts at the provincial commissioner’s boardroom in Polokwane on January 6, when she gave an update about the impact that the joint festive season operations had on the aim to keep crime at bay, conducted since October 1, 2022, until January 1 along with the Limpopo community safety department. “I believe firmly that when crime is committed someone, somewhere has the information that can help police arrest the perpetrators,” Hadebe said. With the apprehension of 26 806 suspects at the time, the arrest of a 52-year-old police officer and six suspects along the N1 at Capricorn Plaza between Polokwane and Makhado was among the cases that caused concern to the men and women in blue. According to police information the seven attempted a business robbery at a convenient store at a filling station where one of them worked. The suspects stole a drop-safe containing an undisclosed amount of money and cigarettes. The police warrant officer is attached to Makhado Crime Intelligence Unit. Expressing both disappointment at the involvement of a police officer and thrill at the non-discriminatory might of the law, the province’s police big wig is also pleased at the sacrifices made by officers who worked during the festive season when most professions were at rest. Hadebe said: “The public expectations from the police can only be fulfilled if they are satistified with the integrity, professionalism and promptness in the services rendered by police members from police stations. Hence, we will be beefing up police stations with more members and resources, including the deployment of over 849 newly trained constables.” As part of enforcement on the Liquor Act, 1989,(Act No. 27 of 1989) 5 301 individuals were fined for drinking in public while 513 illegal liquor outlets were shut down. 