You often don’t think about the health of your child’s bones, mainly because it is something that cannot be “felt” or “seen”. We chat with Rediscover Dairy for the scoop on how dairy can help your child’s bones grow healthy and strong. Calcium is the mineral found in all dairy products such as milk, cheese, yoghurt and amasi. Calcium is also a major component of bone and is needed to build and maintain strong bones. It is obvious that providing your child with calcium-rich foods helps look after their bones. Milk and dairy products play a valuable role in the diet and it is difficult to meet calcium needs without dairy. Children mimic their parents’ eating habits and research shows that mothers who eat at least three servings of dairy products every day are more likely to have children who are also high dairy consumers. Neglecting to consume enough calcium-rich foods, such as dairy, increases the risk of developing osteoporosis later on in life. Osteoporosis is a condition in which bones lose calcium and other minerals, which can cause bones to break easily. It is a silent disease, as it develops gradually over a long period of time without you even being aware of it. The misconception that only babies need to grow strong bones couldn’t be further from the truth. As babies and children grow, their bones grow too. At the adolescent phase, bones grow particularly fast, so this period of life sets the foundation for bone health later on. During adulthood, bone growth reaches a plateau and into late adulthood, maintenance of bones is needed. A combination of daily exercise, enough calcium, phosphorus and vitamin D has been proven to increase bone density. Bone density is a term used to describe the strength of your bones. A high bone density lowers your child’s risk of fracture as the bone is “filled” with calcium. Regular physical activity helps develop bone density in children. A healthy diet that includes at least three servings of dairy every day, especially during childhood and adolescence is recommended. There are dairy options available to suit almost every child and every lifestyle. So there really is no excuse to neglect your child’s bone health. And dairy is tasty too, so it is always a pleasure to include it in your child’s diet – every day. This might sound like a lot of dairy. Keep it simple and serve milk or yogurt for three meals of the day, and you just “got it done”. Older kids and teens might give you a run for your money when it comes to drinking milk. Maintain water and milk as the primary beverages in your home, and your job will be easier. 