POLOKWANE – Tebogo Morolong is passionate about giving youth caught up in substance abuse a second chance at life. Morolong founded Lehlabile Rehabilitation Centre in Mmotong wa perekisi last year and she has been actively working with youth to change their lives and beat substance abuse. The 41-year-old explained that she has an extensive history working with youth as a child and youth care worker. This work experience and having had to help her own son with his substance abuse struggles, equipped her with the right skills to take on the challenge of rehabilitating young people that show up at her doorstep. Morolong left her job to focus all her attention on the rehabilitation centre. “When a person comes in for assistance, we do an assessment then take them to hospital to clear the drugs out of their system. We also have a mobile clinic that comes every Wednesday fortnightly to check the youth. We have a social worker and psychologist that assist the centre,” she explained. You might also want to read: Limpopo rehabilitation centre focuses on traditional medicine Morolong explained that as much as they would like to rehabilitate the youths for free, the centre currently has no funding and the youths pay R1 500, which she explained covers their meals, everything else is free of charge. We also equip them with skills to help them stay clean after they are rehabilitated. The centre has 10 people working for a stipend. Some of the challenges that she faces is assisting youths that are orphaned and have no means to provide for their immediate needs. “I have to assist and that means it comes out of my pocket but I have to do it because it’s a calling,” she said. As a mom of three, she shared that it is not easy balancing running the centre and family life. “It is not easy because sometimes I must sleep at the centre, my job has no working hours, it’s a 24-hour job. My last born is only 13 years old and goes to boarding school, whenever he is home, he needs my attention, which can become tricky,” she added. She added that it is worth it because she loves what she does. It is a calling for her to assist these youngsters and give them a chance at improving their life. The biggest challenge currently, is space. She is in dire need of a bigger place. “I have 65 youths; its girls and boys. I am paying rent for two houses which accommodate the boys and the girls separately. I am asking for assistance in this regard,” she said. Anybody in a position to assist with building material or any other form of donation can reach Morolong on 083 502 4407. Visit Lehlabile Rehabilitation Centre’s Facebook page to see more of the work they do. 