The world in which we live encourages sedentary behaviour not only in adults but also in children. Today’s children would rather sit on the couch with a phone, iPad, or console than go outside to play. The health implications of this sedentary lifestyle are palpable. That is why parents always look for healthy suggestions and alternative practices that will improve their children’s quality of life. Children who receive enough exercise will notice improvements in everything from bone and muscular strength to concentration and mood. Children and parents should strive towards the following: • Children aged five to sixteen16 need to be active for at least 60 minutes each day.
• Children under five require three hours of activity every day. Walking is one of the most effective exercises for preventing childhood obesity and maintaining a healthy lifestyle. Suitable for all children, regardless of their physical condition, walking increases endurance, agility, and cardiovascular health. Simple gestures like going for a daily stroll boost lung capacity as well. Walking for 30 minutes a day enhances children’s mood and school performance, boosts concentration and relaxation, improves learning ability, stimulates imagination, and teaches them to breathe properly. Nothing gets kids excited like water games. Whether you buy some cheap water shooters or turn on the outdoor hose, this pastime should appeal to everyone from toddlers to teenagers. You might be amazed at how quickly children move when there’s a treasure hunt on offer, whether you’re looking for stuffed toys, envelopes, or just pieces of cut-out paper. Spread your treasure across your home or garden. Treasure hunts are great for siblings to play together or for a child to play alone. If you really want to go all out, use tea staining to make a treasure map look authentic. If you look online, you will find a plethora of treasure hunt clues and free printable artwork. Playing music and dancing with your children is a fun way to spend an afternoon. Hold a competition for the craziest dance move, or try your hand at breakdancing, belly dancing, or even hula hooping. If your child is competitive, time them jogging the length of the garden with a stopwatch; they’ll be eager to beat their personal best. You could also be surprised at how quickly their time improves with consistent practice.