POLOKWANE – Polokwane Mayor John Mpe during a recent media briefing launched three marathons that will soon be hosted by the municipality at the Peter Mokaba Stadium last Wednesday and announced that the municipality will assist athletes with transport to attend the events as well as the Comrades Marathon. The event was also attended by the Health MEC Dr Phophi Ramathuba and the Sport MEC Nakedi Sibanda-Kekana and mayors of other municipalities as well as representatives of athletics clubs and sponsors. Mpe addressed the guests and said that it gives him a sense of pride to announce that Polokwane Municipality has proven its capability to successfully host major activities. “We continue to partner with organisers of major and small events and this is our effort in the promotion of cultural diversity, social cohesion and development through sport to celebrate what makes up our nation,” Mpe explained. Mpe also announced that the municipality will, for the first time, partner with Makoro Village Marathon on March 18 to encourage people to explore and celebrate the village life. This race will be run just on the footsteps of Moria. “From now henceforth, we are rebranding the Annual Mayoral Marathon so that we can properly position the Polokwane brand. We are now going to host a Comrades qualifier under a new name, Polokwane City Marathon on April 22 to help in the promotion and marketing of the city,” Mpe added and explained that both marathons will have four races 42km, 21km, 10km and 5km and that, for the first time, the village marathon will be a Comrades qualifier. There will be many prizes including prize money of up to R200 000 to be won and online registration for the marathons was opened at the launch. According to Mpe, the city will also be hosting the Mayoral Charity Golf Tournament on February 24 in search of solutions to the challenges faced by young people within the municipality. “Among their challenges is lack of funds to further their studies at tertiary level. “It is worth mentioning that the Mayoral Charity Golf Tournament has, since its launch, gained traction. It has enabled just over 300 students to progress to higher institutions of learning,” Mpe said. Mpe thanked the Polokwane Golf Club, Polokwane Athletic Club and the media for their continued support in building the great and smart City of Stars. “All the three sporting events and other activities would not be successful without the contribution of our sponsors and partners such as the Fats Cats, Muteo, Energy FM, Hollywood, Orchid Aesthetic, Euphoria, Polokwane Chisanyama, Coca Cola, Telkom, MTN, Vodacom and Cell C,” Mpe added. In conclusion, Mpe announced that he will be participating in the marathons, joined by MECs Ramathuba and Sibanda-Kekana and mayors Mamedupi Teffo and Meriam Molala, among others. 