5G was a premium feature found only on the most expensive phones even 18 months ago. But today, there are value-for-money phones that support 5G. These devices offer immersive displays, a high-resolution triple camera experience, high-speed processors and many other features befitting a more expensive device. TCL shares what to look for if you want to buy a 5G Android smartphone that offers the ideal balance of affordability and fast mobile internet: Your budget is the obvious place to start when you’re looking to choose which 5G device to get. With prices ranging from R8,000 to R25,000-plus, you might think you’re priced out of the market as a mid-range smartphone user. But there are some great options available for below R4,000. The great thing about buying a 5G smartphone at this price point is that it could easily last you the next four to five years.  If you’re getting a 5G device, you are probably a person who appreciates rich media and gaming applications. Look for a smartphone that offers enough RAM and processing power to ensure a smooth user experience on your apps. Phones built on platforms like the MediaTek Dimensity 700 processor offer great performance at a price that won’t break the bank. This technology supports new heights of heavy multitasking and intense gaming modes.  You should expect nothing less from a mid-range 5G phone than a capable triple camera on the rear of the phone and a high-quality selfie camera. A 13-megapixel (MP) Triple Camera captures unforgettable moments with competitive detail and clarity. If you’re into photography, look for a dedicated depth lens and macro lens to add versatility for portraits and close-ups.  A display that offers razor-sharp clarity, increased contrast, and crisper definition makes a big difference to your experience. To enjoy crisp media, video calls and gaming, you will want an HD+ Display with true-to-life colours and a high refresh rate. Depending on your needs, you may also appreciate a larger (6.5 inch-plus) screen.  Especially in these times of remote work and load-shedding, you need a 5G smartphone that can get through the day without needing to recharge. Look for a device that delivers all-day performance, as well as safe fast charging.