POLOKWANE – Streaming services such as Showmax and Netflix have made it possible to watch your favourite series or movies on demand, whenever you want to. This however makes it even more difficult to decide between the magnitude of options available – that’s where we come in. Review has put together a list of shows you should stream on your favourite platform. What to Watch this week on: Showmax: Series: The last of us One of Variety’s Most Anticipated Streaming Titles of 2023, HBO’s The Last Of Us is set 20 years after modern civilisation has been destroyed. Joel (Critics Choice Super Award winner Pedro Pascal from The Mandalorian and Game of Thrones) is hired to smuggle 14-year-old Ellie (BAFTA Award winner Bella Ramsey from His Dark Materials and Game of Thrones) out of an oppressive quarantine zone. But what starts as a small job soon becomes a brutal journey as the pair traverse the U.S., depending on each other for survival.  Movie: Respect South African Liesl Tommy (Mrs. Fletcher, The Walking Dead, Jessica Jones) was nominated as Breakthrough Creative at the 2022 NAACP Image Awards for directing Respect, a music biopic about the Queen of Soul, Aretha Franklin. Fellow South African Avril Beukes (Peabody winner David Makes Man, Oscar nominee Yesterday) was up for Best Editor at the 2022 Black Reel Awards, while the soundtrack was nominated for a Grammy last year.  For the kids: Fireheart In 1930s New York, girls can’t be firefighters. But sixteen-year-old Georgia Nolan (voiced by Olivia Cooke from Ready Player One) plans on changing that… if she can just get past her fire-fighter dad (Oscar winner Kenneth Branagh).  Netflix: Series: Break Point Travel alongside some of the world’s most talented tennis players as they swing for greatness and Grand Slams through an action-packed season.  Movie: Disconnect: The Wedding Planner After falling victim to a scam, a desperate man races the clock as he attempts to plan a luxurious destination wedding for an important investor.  For the kids: Kung Fu Panda: The Dragon Knight Legendary warrior Po teams up with an elite English knight on a global quest to rescue magical weapons, restore his reputation – and save the world!  Sources: Showmax, Wikipedia and What’s on Netflix. 