POLOKWANE – “I struggle with pain and spasms in my whole body. I go to the doctor sometimes up to three times a week to seek relief. After I got a second opinion because the pains were getting worse and more, I was diagnosed with Fibromyalgia. I tried to research the disease on the internet but can’t really find any information. All I’ve learned is that starch and sugar make it worse,” a Mokopane resident told Bosveld, who spoke to Dr James Lehmann to find out more. He explained Fibromyalgia is the second most common disease that affects bones and muscles, yet it is a disease that is often not understood and is difficult to diagnose. Lehmann said the disease involves the way pain signals are transmitted in one’s body. “When a person gets hurt, nerve signals are transmitted from the wound through the spinal cord to the brain. The brain perceives the signals as pain. When the sore spot heals, the pain disappears. However, Fibromyalgia victims are constantly in pain, regardless of whether or not they have an injury or illness.” He added Fibromyalgia is caused by several factors, one of which is genes that can be inherited from one or both parents. Other medical conditions, such as arthritis or infection, can also increase the patient’s chances of getting Fibromyalgia. “Emotional or physical abuse of children can increase the chances of them becoming adults with the illness. This may be because abuse affects the way the brain deals with pain and stress.” According to Lehmann, Fibromyalgia is quite common among people who are not physically active, and more women than men suffer from Fibromyalgia. “This is possibly related to the different ways in which women and men experience and react to pain, as well as how society expects them to react to pain.” When asked to elaborate on the symptoms, Lehmann said: “Every muscle and bone in your body aches. The pain can feel like osteoarthritis, bursitis or tendonitis, but instead of the pain and stiffness being in one specific place, you experience it all over your body. Other common symptoms are a lower pain threshold or sensitive nerve endings, fatigue that drains you, concentration or memory problems, insomnia, nervousness, worry or depression, stomach pain, bloating, constipation, diarrhoea, nausea, a dry mouth, nose and eyes, sensitivity to cold, heat, light and sound. Then there is also the need to urinate more often and a feeling of numbness or a tingling sensation in your face, arms, hands, legs or feet.” Lehmann explained that there is treatment to ease the pain. “Depending on the symptoms, your doctor may prescribe painkillers, antidepressants, muscle relaxants and sleeping pills. Some over-the-counter pain relievers may also help. There are also stronger medications that will relieve the pain in the long run, but they can be addictive.” He added that regular, moderate exercise is recommended for managing Fibromyalgia. “Low-impact exercises that improve endurance, stretch your muscles and strengthen your ability to move more easily are ideal. “This includes exercises such as tai chi, yoga, pilates and even walking. Exercise releases endorphins that counteract pain and stress and improve your mood, and it helps you to sleep better. A healthy lifestyle is recommended to help alleviate symptoms.” Lehmann said that if none of the suggested medications help, therapy such as massages, acupuncture or chiropractic manipulation can be considered. 