LIMPOPO – Members of the Mukhwevho family in Ha-Mandiwana, who have been frantically searching for a lost family member, have become despondent following the discovery of the missing man’s clothes and car. Takalani Jimmy Mukwevho (45), a lecturer at the Vhembe TVET College at Mavhoi Campus went missing on December 18. The discovery of a car and clothes sent shock waves through the community, with some people strongly believing that he was murdered. The police and the community searched everywhere, but to no avail. You might also want to read: Partly decomposed body of missing person found in Musina Limpopo police spokesperson Brig Motlafela Mojapelo confirmed Mukwevho’s disappearance and said the police were investigating the circumstances. He confirmed that the police had found a vehicle, and that three people including a woman were arrested. One of the suspects pointed out to the police where they had apparently hid the clothes. Vhembe Concerned Group leader, Richard Ramabulana, said the growing number of missing people in the area was becoming a matter of great concern. “The police must investigate these disappearances, as it seems as if there is a sinister motive around the disappearance,” he said. Ramabulana said that after being notified of the disappearance, everyone had helped the family to look for Mukwevho. “As community leaders we are saddened, as we had hoped he would be found alive. Instead, this has happened. Yet, we can only commend the community for remaining calm and not being led by emotions.” Mukwevho’s older brother, Zacharia said the family was concerned as the clothes were found at Ha-Mashau, situated more than 100km from his village. “We reported him missing to the police and, with the help of the community and the police and their dogs, searched everywhere, but he was nowhere to be found. We gave up the search after three months but still hoped he would be found alive,” he said. A woman and two men appeared in the Dzanani Magistrate’s Court on charges of kidnapping and robbery. The case against Gudani Malele, Thinandavha Mathisa and Lucas Mukhadi was postponed to February 24. Gudani appeared on January 16 for a bail application. 