Barf. Upchuck. Kotch. Puke. Call it what you want, but as a parent, you will encounter child vomit – and, needless to say, it will not be pleasant. Even the most experienced parents can become completely frazzled when their child starts throwing up. However, child vomit does occur. And when that happens, you might have some questions. Here are the answers: The most common cause of vomiting is viral gastroenteritis, also known as “stomach flu.” This infection can last anywhere between a few days and a week. Other causes can include motion sickness, food poisoning, digestive issues, and some types of infections. When a child vomits, the main concern is dehydration. Encourage your child to take small but frequent sips of water or very diluted juice. You could also provide an oral rehydration solution, such as Rehidrat®, which has the ideal balance of sugar and salts to maximise fluid absorption. While some believe ginger ale relieves nausea, drinking too much sugary soda can aggravate stomach problems. Warm ginger tea, sweetened with honey, is a better option. Ironically, it is quite common for a child to vomit the contents of their stomach and then request a snack five minutes later. Should you give in? The advice on this one is reciprocal. Some doctors recommend waiting for a short while if your child is vomiting due to gastroenteritis before offering food. Other doctors advise offering small amounts of food if your child wants food immediately after vomiting. Again, experts have differing opinions. Many people recommend the “BRAT” diet, which consists of bananas, rice, applesauce, and toast. However, newer research indicates sick children can eat the same foods they always do without consequences. It’s a good idea to avoid serving your child fried and greasy foods, dairy, and excess sugar. Consult your doctor for guidance. Soothe your child, rub their back, acknowledge their feelings, and assure them that everything will be fine and that it will be over soon. This depends on what has caused your child’s vomiting. If it’s due to an infection, it’s best to consult with your child’s doctor. If you suspect dehydration or if diarrhoea and vomiting are accompanied by pain or a fever of 38.5°C or higher, keep your child home from school. Return them once their symptoms have subsided, and they can tolerate liquids and solid food without becoming ill. Cleaning up vomit from children is one of the most unpleasant aspects of parenting. Here are a few pointers to make it just a little bit better. It can be, depending on the cause of the vomiting. Viral gastroenteritis is highly contagious, and you’re especially vulnerable if you’re caring for a child or cleaning up after them. Wash your hands – and your child’s hands thoroughly.