As a country, South Africans hold an affinity towards sedans for their practicality, comfort, and style. Some of the most affordable models on sale in the local market are this body configuration which serves a purpose and provides good value for money. These automobiles provide excellent worth for the money paid because they are convenient and pleasurable to use. Whether you’re in the market for a daily driver or your first vehicle, this list has you covered. As such, let’s take a closer look at the best affordable sedans in South Africa. The old Swift Dzire’s trunk area looked like an afterthought from the back, and that was a major flaw for prospective buyers. The new sedan, on the other hand, has a more unified look and feels different enough from the Swift hatchback that it can justify dropping the Swift moniker. In spite of being 10mm shorter than before, the vehicle’s width has increased by 40mm, resulting in a sportier stance and more interior space. This is all thanks to the new Heartect platform, which underpins other models from the Japanese manufacturer, including the Baleno and the Ignis.  Powered by an ‘all-new platform’, Honda claims the Amaze’s ‘spacious interior’ makes it ideal for families. Its chrome-heavy front end is reminiscent of that of the larger Honda Civic and BR-V. In the rear, the new model ditches the chrome trim of the first generation (although in SA, you can add chrome garnish as an accessory) in favour of a simpler, cleaner design, with the taillights now extending into the trunk. Standard on even the base Kia Pegas 1.4 LX is a seven-inch touchscreen infotainment system with six speakers, Apple CarPlay, and Android Auto compatibility, and more. The LX comes standard with a rearview camera, auto-on/off headlights, audio controls on the steering wheel, power front/rear windows, dual front airbags, antilock brakes, and anchors for ISOFIX child seats.  The Ciaz now comes standard with several features, including cruise control, a touchscreen infotainment system with Android Auto and Apple CarPlay, and a rear-facing camera (which is oddly offset and thus displays guidelines that don’t line up to a parking bay). We were somewhat surprised that traction control, a steering wheel reach adjustment, and a rear-folding seat were still absent. However, even though the plastics are still all uniformly basic, the additional technology has undoubtedly improved the cabin’s atmosphere (although seemingly indestructible).  The Almera offers good value, but its interior trim quality isn’t quite on par with that of its competitors. You do get a multi-function steering wheel and effective air conditioning with vents for the people in the back seats, even though cruise control isn’t a standard feature.  What has changed in this lineup recently? There are now up to six variants in the range, which has doubled in size. The 1.6-liter gasoline engine has been replaced with a similarly familiar 1.8-liter naturally aspirated unit that delivers 103kW and 174Nm to the front axle through either a smooth-shifting six-speed manual gearbox or a continuously variable transmission (the old four-speed torque converter has finally been put out to pasture). Read the original story on CAR Mag.