Kia South Africa wants to become a top gender-empowered employer. “By making our workforce more representative of our nation, Kia South Africa will drive our aspiration to be fully in tune with the South African way of life,” comments Gary Scott, CEO of Kia South Africa. “Movement creates the space to find inspiration and fresh perspectives, which are critical to taking any step towards changing our world for the better. We’re committed to change, and specifically to change in South Africa, and our mission – to be loved by all South Africans – compels us to be better and do better, starting with our own business.” In 2022, Kia sponsored the Top gender-empowered organisation: Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Award in the annual Standard Bank Top Women Awards. This intention is endorsed by Kia’s HR executive, Latisha Naidu, who joined Kia’s executive management team in 2022. “We actively want to effect change in the industry, not just by shifting perceptions about women in motoring, but also through creating multiple, tangible opportunities for women to join and grow in the industry” comments Naidu. “To this end, we are taking a multipronged approach to ensure that women empowerment not only remains a priority but is effected across all levels.” Kia is celebrating 25 years of operating in South Africa. It ranks within the top 10 sales brands with a 5% market share.  “Kia has made great strides towards empowerment and transformation in the past year, and we’re proud that our head office operations include 66% women overall, and 63% at head of department level,” comments Naidu. “However, with such a large retail network in our business, it is also a prime opportunity for accelerated empowerment in the retail space.” Kia wants to recruit at least 65 female sales executives. “We are looking for individuals who live our values of fun, simplicity, dependability, consistency and being brave,” comments Naidu. “Joining the brand as sales executives place women at the coalface of our operations, and brings excellent opportunities for training and career growth, including training towards becoming a sales manager and, ultimately, dealer principals.” Source: QuickPic  