International Asperger’s Day is observed on 18 February, highlighting the difficulties associated with this syndrome. Since 2013, Asperger’s syndrome has been included in the autism spectrum. Autism is referred to be a spectrum disorder since it refers to a wide range of symptoms and severity. The absence of language deficits and the absence of severe symptoms distinguish Asperger’s Disorder from classic autism. Asperger’s syndrome (often referred to simply as Asperger’s) is a developmental disability that impairs language and communication abilities, as well as promotes repetitive or limiting thinking and behaviour. Children with Asperger’s syndrome often have high IQs and no speech problems. They do, however, play, study, communicate, and act differently than others. Early symptoms of Asperger’s syndrome in children are possible but cannot be confirmed as certain without the diagnosis of a professional. Always consult a doctor if you believe your child’s communication and social skills are not developing normally. Your doctor may recommend that you see a developmental expert. The following are symptoms that your child may have Asperger’s syndrome: Asperger’s syndrome is not caused by a single factor. However, research reveals that some circumstances during pregnancy and after birth may increase a child’s chances of being diagnosed with an autism spectrum condition. These elements are as follows: Doctors can detect Asperger’s syndrome in children s young as 18 months old. No blood tests or medical imaging scans can be used to identify the illness. Instead, doctors measure a child’s behaviour and development to a checklist against others of the same age. There is no way to prevent or avoid Asperger’s syndrome because the cause is unknown. Early and consistent treatment can assist your child in coping with the symptoms of Asperger’s syndrome. It can help a child prepare for adulthood. Treatment often consists of a combination of speech, physical, occupational, and cognitive behavioural treatment (CBT). The treatment team will determine how frequently it will work with your child. Developing relationships for your child with Asperger’s syndrome or ASD will require practice and effort. A child with Asperger’s syndrome may not express appropriate emotions (or any emotions), may not understand the irony in a joke, obscure concepts, or the basic elements of dialogue. Other children may think their behaviour is unusual.