Already spawning in dealerships and on roads, Ford’s Ranger has been continuing as a stalwart for Blue Oval sales locally, however, the next-gen Ranger Raptor is arguably one of the most hotly anticipated models to hit the market this year. Conclusively equipped for the base price, here are some key features that will be included on the model. Buyers can spec their Raptor in one of eight colours namely; code orange, meteor grey, aluminium metallic, absolute black, sedona orange, conquer grey, blue lightning and arctic white. The metallic paint option will be available at an additional cost. Most importantly, the inner workings of the Ford Ranger Raptor have done away with the turbo diesel motor and now features a high-performance three-litre twin-turbo EcoBoost V6 which delivers 292kW and 491Nm. This signals a massive 135KW and 83Nm improvement from its predecessor and enables it to come standard with a 2 500kg towing capacity. A permanent four-wheel drive system translates this power onto the road through a new electronically-controlled on-demand two-speed transfer case with front and rear locking differentials for when the going gets tough. Like before, the super-bakkie features upgraded suspension in the form of Ford Performance-developed FOX 2.5-inch live valve internal bypass shock absorbers which can be modified on the trot to cope with treacherous terrain with seven selectable drive modes. Ford performance chief programme engineer for the model, Dave Burn, says: “The suspension adapts in real-time to enable exceptional on-road body control.” The new model is accredited to be the most advanced Ranger yet, combining raw power with mechanical and technical precision. “It’s significantly faster, looks incredible, is packed with new features and is the strongest Built Ford Tough Ranger we’ve ever made.” Burn further added. What some of this marketing jargon means is that the Raptor is equipped with a rally-inspired anti-lag system available in Baja mode (one of the seven driving modes) which keeps the turbos spooled with peak power readily available. Ford encourages this drive mode exclusively for off-roading but it may just give some on-road-orientated sports cars a run for their money in this setting. While automatic transmissions are far from anything new, the 10-speed found in the 2023 Ford Ranger Raptor has pre-programmed boost profiles for each gear which enables seamless performance delivery and acceleration. To keep the peace in the neighbourhood the Raptor also comes with an active exhaust system which includes quiet, normal, sport and baha modes. Connecting the behemoth bakkie to the ground are 17-inch aluminium wheels wrapped in BF Goodrich all-terrain KO2 tyres. The next-gen Ranger Raptor comes with a four-year/120 000km warranty, as well as four years of roadside assistance with no distance limits.