POLOKWANE – A service delivery protest by Seshego residents is currently underway in the Polokwane CBD and organisers say the aim is stop economic activity for the day. Residents are demanding a flat rate for water and cancellation of all Seshego residents’ bills as well as an end to load-shedding. Read more: Seshego residents to embark on service delivery protest These outcries are among others that have been tallied in memorandums of demand which will be distributed at various departments around Polokwane. Residents gathered at the Seshego Circle Center this morning (February 22) before making their way down Nelson Mandela Drive and blocked both sides of the road near Disteneng. Residents in Seshego have blocked Nelson Mandela Drive near Disteneng as part of their service delivery protest. Public transport has been affected with Leeto La Polokwane and Great North buses, among others, suspending operations for the day. pic.twitter.com/qZkrhu711z — Polokwane Observer (@PolokwaneObserv) February 22, 2023  Public transportation was disrupted with Leeto La Polokwane and Great North Transport buses, among others, suspending operations for the day. “The city will monitor the situation and resume with operations as soon as the matter is under control,” a Leeto La Polokwane statement read. A protest by Seshego residents over the water crisis in the area in October 2022 turned violent after not being addressed by the Polokwane Mayor John Mpe. Read more: WATCH: Chaos as rubber bullets fired near the N1 circle When asked whether the situation would turn violent should they not receive answers today, one of the organisers, Hani Mafalo told the Polokwane Observer that their main aim is to stop economic activity until they receive a proper answer. “If they are not going to answer us, we will sleep around town until they answer us. We want the mayor and other stakeholders to hear our cries and sit down with us and provide us with proper solutions,” he said. Mafalo said Mpe has contradicted himself several times which has left residents confused. As at 11:10, several shops in Landdros Mare had shut their doors as the group made their way to the Polokwane Municipality. The group is being escorted by the SAPS and Polokwane traffic officials. 