POLOKWANE – The Oranio’s Youth Centre with assistance from Debonairs Pizza, ensures that children have something to eat before they go home after school. Terry Whitehead, the founder of Oranio’s Youth Centre, explained that she had in the past ran a soup kitchen in the community but had stopped because she was running it out of her own pocket with occasional donations from community members but it was not sustainable. She thanked Sarel Martin, who donates vegetables and fruit from time to time. Whitehead, however, saw how dire the situation is in her community was and decided that instead of giving up, approach sponsors instead. One day she was at Debonairs Pizza and saw a poster that caught her attention where Debonairs Pizza was making ‘doughnations’ as part of their corporate social investment programme. She enquired, submitted the relevant documents and has since been receiving freshly baked bread from Debonairs Pizza every Monday to feed children in Westenburg. Every weekend, Debonairs Pizza takes the dough off-cuts of pizza and forms bread. The bread is freshly baked on Mondays and the children receive it fresh. Whitehead said that it really helps because many of these children have nothing to eat when they get home. “We package four breads together for each child to take home because we know that many of them have siblings and other family members they can share with. That way none of them go to bed hungry,” she said. She requests assistance with the fillings for the bread, however, and anything is appreciated. “In a perfect world, I would like to fill the bread with lettuce, tomato and cheese as well as have juice to complete the meal, but I will appreciate anything. We also appreciate monetary donations, however, it is preferred that people donate the actual products because it makes it easier logistically,” she said. Robinson Mamabolo from Debonairs Pizza said they wanted to put the pizza dough off-cuts to good use by donation it to the less fortunate. “We try to give every week and we work with a few organisations around Polokwane.” He added that it is touching to witness the appreciation that people have. “People need the help and we will do our best to continue to assist,” he said. Whitehead can be reached on 073 903 9803. 