POLOKWANE – Residents in the proximity of Tom Naudé Park are up in arms about the local authority’s inability or lack of will to deal with the abuse of alcohol and disorder at this facility that over the weekend resulted in threats against passing motorists in Potgieter Street. This follows an incident when stones were thrown at passing vehicles on Saturday afternoon, causing damage to a vehicle and endangering the life of the driver, her daughter and her three young children. The driver told Polokwane Observer that she made three attempts to call the police but all her calls were unanswered. “Vehicles entering and leaving the park also had no regard for traffic rules and other road users simply had to make way to avoid serious accidents. We have no rest as parties continue until the early hours of the morning over weekends are now at the order of the day. There is clearly no regard for residents staying in the vicinity of the park,” an irate resident said, adding that loud music is played although it is prohibited by the city’s by-laws.” You might also want to read: Municipality says they have plans for ablution facilities at ‘Party Park’ The municipality’s Public Open Spaces By-law of 2018 stipulates that no person may “act in a manner which is dangerous to life or property” and further that no person may “consume, brew, store or sell any alcoholic beverage” in a public open space. No person is further allowed to “use any sound equipment, including a radio, portable hi-fi or car stereo within the confines of a park. The bylaw also places an obligation on the municipality to “prominently display a notice at every entrance to a recreational public open space indicating the opening and closing times of the public open space and any rules made by the council in relation to that recreational open space”. According to Ward 39 councillor in the municipality, Adv Franco Marx, the DA has raised the matter with the municipality on numerous occasions and filed written questions after the facility was left with damage to municipal property as well as littering after a function on April 28 last year. The municipality only replied to the questions in a report tabled in council during December last year, saying they will “improve by-law enforcement visibility at municipal parks and ensure that municipal by-laws are adhered to”. A promise of signboards with terms and conditions was also made, but according to Marx, there are still no signs. “The public drinking and disturbances on Wednesday evenings and on Saturdays and Sundays has now escalated to the extent that it is clear that the municipality has lost control of the situation and blatantly disregards the pleas of residents to maintain law and order at public facilities managed by the local authority,” Marx said and indicated that he intends to pursue the matter further. Susan Clarke, VF Plus councillor in the municipality, said in a media release that it is unacceptable that partygoers, at a private event in the park, resorted to the throwing of bottles and other objects at passing traffic. “Despite the efforts of the VF Plus to highlight the situation at the park during the 2022 strategic planning session of the municipality, it again failed to take action in terms of the agreed programme and during May last year the VF Plus had to intervene and have the park cleaned before the starting of the third school quarter,” Clarke said and added that the challenges at the park were brought to the attention of Mayor John Mpe and the manager responsible for law enforcement and security services, Phineas Mahlatji on numerous occasions. According to Clarke, money was budgeted for the building of ablution facilities, designated braai areas, a security building, a fence around the park to ensure controlled access as well as the cleaning of the dam following insistence from the VF Plus. “Nothing has, however, been done as yet and we will continue to put pressure on the municipality to come to the party,” Clarke said. Polokwane police spokesperson Capt Lesiba Ramoshaba advised members of the public to contact the station commander Brig Daniel Makhura on 071 601 5195 if telephones are not answered or to visit the police station. “We also appeal to motorists who might have been victims, to report cases to Polokwane Police Station or use the mobile number 079 889 5794,” Ramoshaba said. Spokesperson for the municipality, Thipa Selala said that, upon receipt of the complaint, law enforcement officers were dispatched to the park and on arrival the victim had already left the scene. “The victim was called and was advised to go and register the case at the SAPS and she indicated that she had family commitments and as such she won’t go to the police station. Selala, however, did not offer any comment regarding the municipality’s intentions to erect signboards or their plans for better law enforcement. 