POLOKWANE – After recent pitbull terrier attacks in the city and Seshego, Polokwane Observer spoke to a qualified dog trainer about canine behaviour. Jenny Venter has eight years’ experience and is the owner of the K9 Training Academy. At the academy, they offer various types of training, including obedience training and personal protection training with owner and dog together. “Pit bulls are in my opinion the nicest obedience dogs I have worked with. They have a lot of food drive and are very willing to please.” She says over the years, the academy trained pitbulls in protection training as they usually do not have the drive to become personal protection dogs. You might also want to read: Victim of Hospital Park pitbull attack speaks out During an interview on Carte Blanche with animal behaviourist Leigh Shenker, she said pitbulls are bred for dogfights and are still used for fighting. “They were bred to see something and kill it quickly. They are used in ways they should not be used. The American pitbull, for example, is not aggressive, but they are being crossbred to make them aggressive. They are not guard dogs.” She continued to say these dogs are often tied up in a backyard to build up tension. The minute they are then released, the animals gets aggressive. Jenny adds that people often use them as guard dogs as they are very territorial. Pit bulls are power breeds, meaning they have a high tolerance for pain. A lot of the times they are not pure bred and mixed with other power bred dogs. When you want a pitbull puppy, educate yourself about the breed as well as the breeder, is her advice. “Genetics play a huge role in the dogs. The type of dog they are bred with, can influence their temperament. If you buy the R200 puppy I guarantee there is a difference between the R200 and a R20 000 dog. No breeder who breeds legally develops and ensures good dogs, will sell them for R200.” “All power breeds should really only be sold to clients who will be responsible and will train and socialise the dogs properly. Sadly there are very few breeders left that really breed to improve the breed. These days, it is about money.” Jenny advises potential pitbull owners to look for registered breeders. “A lot depends on the breeding. I have worked with pitbulls bought at pet shops, and pitbulls bought from breeders. The difference is day and night. If the illegal or backyard breeding stops, we will have breeders breeding sound and solid dogs. I do agree some licensing laws should be put in place and to own any power breed it should be regulated.” 