Now is the time for the four-door crossover coupé with an astonishingly versatile body design to make its debut. By combining opposites in perfect synthesis, the Audi Activesphere proves to be a versatile crosser of boundaries with a drive system and suspension which make it equally adept both on and off the road.  The Activesphere’s fully electric powertrain gets all four wheels involved via a Quattro AWD system with dedicated front and rear axle motors. Those motors team up to produce a total of 325 kW of power and 720 N.m of torque, resulting in a spirited 4,9-second 0-100 km/h sprint. The new concept blends the body of a Sportback sedan with the high-riding chassis of a 4×4 and the incomparable utility of a bakkie. In terms of off-road readiness, the Activesphere rides visibly higher than the average crossover coupe courtesy of an adaptive air suspension and oversized 22-inch wheels. The adjustable suspension maxes out with higher ground clearance than most of its competitors, leaving 248 mm of open air between the ground and chassis. Back on the highway, the driver can lower the suspension down to the default 208 mm setting for tauter handling.  With an electric drive and quick-charging technology from Audi’s PPE modular system, the Audi Activesphere blends in well with the Sphere family of concept vehicles. With no local emissions, a range of over 600 km and extremely fast charging times, thanks to 800-volt technology, it combines the sustainability, dynamics and long-distance capability of state-of-the-art electric vehicles. Also read: Audi gearing up to develop 20 new models by 2026 Glass surfaces make up a significant part of the vehicle’s body, the front end of the Activesphere features the brand’s Singleframe face, designed as a transparent glazing to afford passengers an unobstructed view through the large frunk of the road in front of the vehicle. The absence of hard edges results in smooth transitions between convex and concave surfaces throughout the body, as well as in soft shadows. Viewed from the side and rear, the rear wheel wells appear markedly horizontal, visualizing the dynamic potential of the concept vehicle.  At the push of a button, the concept’s Sportback becomes an ‘active back’, opening up a small bakkie-style bed complete with a drop-down tailgate. The bed is sized for two bicycles or two or more golf bags and can easily be extra storage space for luggage or anything else you might need room for, the concept even includes a roof-integrated retractable ski rack. Stepping inside the Activesphere, you will find a functional and minimalist interior, using a huge number of recycled materials and a bold colour scheme. Four individual seats are spaced out to provide ample room for all passengers while the front occupants can gain more room with the steering wheel, dashboard and pedals retracting when the car is in semi-autonomous driving mode.  The Audi concept also offers cutting-edge virtual reality. Mixed-reality headsets that offer a combination of camera views and superimposed 3D content, interactive features and driving information come as standard. In an off-road environment, the VR system can project high-resolution 3D topography graphics onto the actual landscape imaging, adding information and navigation overlays. Like the previous Sphere concepts, it is not quite clear that the Audi Activesphere is expected to directly evolve into a production vehicle. However, Audi is planning to be a full-on EV manufacturer by 2033 so some of the features we see on the Activeshere will most likely find their way into upcoming EVs in the near future. Read the original story on Car Mag.