POLOKWANE – Themba Prince Willard Dube, who stands accused of the kidnapping and murder of several women in Seshego, Lebowakgomo and Mankweng, has been positively identified in court by two witnesses who had rental encounters with him at a Seshego property. Read more: Anger as multi-murder accused Themba Dube pleads not guilty On January 26, the Limpopo Division of the High Court heard four testimonies from his former landlord, and a fellow tenant who positively identified him when asked to do so by Judge Gerrit Muller. The landlord, Wilhelmina Letsoalo in court recalled events from the day Dube came looking for a room to rent. She said a man, who called himself “Prince”, knocked on her door on October 8, 2021. She testified that she rented out a room to him and that he stayed there for roughly three weeks before he disappeared without notice. Police later came looking and searched his room, she said. Led by state prosecutor, Calvin Chauke, she pointed to Dube in the dock as the man who had rented the room. In bringing both witnesses to the stand, the state wanted to validate evidence by two previous witnesses relating to some items belonging to their loved ones, which police had found in his room. The Zimbabwean national, who has been residing in South Africa illegally since 2008 faces multiple charges, including the accusation of having murdered seven women. Read more: Missing women: Local man confesses to killings The 36-year-old is also being tried for kidnapping, rape, extortion and contravening the Immigration Act. The bodies of the women were found dumped in various locations around Polokwane between August and October 2021. He is said to have lured the women by promising employment. On January 31, the matter was postponed to February 6. At the time, 19 witnesses had already taken to the stand, out of an expected 92, including the leader of the community organisation that had apprehended him, Vincent Kunutu from the Seshego Community and Crime and Gangsterism. Dube has pleaded not guilty to all the charges against him. 