POLOKWANE – Sanity and Adventures with Rinae is the perfect reset button to mental wellness. Founded by Rinae Mamphodo in 2021, she created a space for women to come together and leave behind whatever is weighing them down, hike across beautiful scenery and make new friends. Rinae (27) started hiking in 2020, during the Covid-19 pandemic. She needed an outlet, especially with all the uncertainty and restrictions that existed at the time. “This was the time when people were not allowed to hike. I did not know what it was about; I just knew that there was such an activity and I wanted to give it a try. It had been on my bucket list and I live by the motto that you cannot say no to something until you try it,” she explained. Her first hike was in Magoebaskloof and she enjoyed how she got to experience nature and being one with it. Rinae makes sure that she goes on a hike at least once every three months. Sanity and Adventures with Rinae came as a result of seeing how hiking changed her. Under the Sanity and Adventures with Rinae umbrella, there is the Ladies Outing that’s is centred around ladies and sisterhood. “People get so swallowed up in their problems that they do not get time to have fun, go out, meet new people and just take a deep breath. When on a hike, you get time to think and reflect on a lot of things. You have enough time to disconnect from everyday life, experience fresh air and beautiful scenery,” she said. Apart from making friends, other benefits of hiking include keeping fit. “I personally go to the gym three or four times a week, so by the time I have to go on a hike, I’m already fit and ready, that’s how I keep myself ready for hikes,” she said. The hikes are open to anyone and everyone that would like to embark on an adventure. “There is no age group, we try to accommodate everyone. In future, we would like to be able to create packages for people who want to go hiking and camping. After hiking, the ladies chill and have a meal together. They get to try new and different restaurants with different food and just taking a breather,” she added. This year, she plans to have loads of fun and start implementing the year’s programme and increasing the distance of the hikes and branch out to other provinces as well. The first hike of the year will be in Makgoebaskloof on February 25. The doors are open for those who are interested. Contact Rinae on 061 680 2968. 