Jaid’s new album Verlanger was released digitally on February 17 and will be complimented with a launch show on March 3 at the AfriForum Theatre in Pretoria and will feature Joshua na die Reën as guest artist, as well as a live band, consisting of Jason Moser on drums, Manalisi Mdaka on bass and keys, Jaco Smit on electric and acoustic guitar, piano, and vocals, Andreas Van Tonder on acoustic and electric guitar, and Alzanley Lizemore on backing vocals. The show starts at 19:00 and tickets are available here. Her new single Stad van Verlange is a powerful ballad about the experience of leaving behind what you know, and the doubts that come with being on your own for the first time in a new place. It is a powerful and emotional exploration of the memories, people, dreams and words that we cling to and keep safe, even though they are not what they used to be, and the song is testament to the resilience of the human spirit and the musician’s incredible song-writing ability. “Every song I write and release carries a piece of my story and who I am. Sharing that with people is incredibly special to me,” Jaid explains. “I think the essence of the song is something that we all go through at some point in our lives, the lonely part of growing up, and I also think that we all just want to know that we’re not alone in how we feel.” Stad van Verlange follows in the footsteps of Duisend Jaar Van Nou, which was very well-received and secured her three nominations at this year’s Afri-Indie Independent Artist Awards. River’s debut album, the culmination of her hard work and dedication to her craft, is now also available on digital platforms, which you can download here. Verlanger, provides a journey through a diverse range of genres including pop and adult contemporary music. The theme of the album is longing, with each song exploring a different type of yearning, whether it’s for people, places, clarity or a dream. “We all long for something, and this album is a reminder to live in the moment and cherish the people and places around us,” she shares. Jaid wrote all the songs on the album except for Gee Nie Om Nie, which she co-wrote with Jaco Smit. When asked about her favourite tracks, the musician cites Verlanger for its powerful lyrics and personal significance and Stilte, which she wrote about the peace she experienced at the Karoo Stilfees in 2016. The album was produced by Jaco Smit and Gideon Botes, and recorded over the course of almost two years. “Making this album was one of the most enjoyable things I’ve ever done in my life and doing it with friends made it even better,” Jaid says. Jaid, whose real name is Jeanlie Minnie, was born in Potchefstroom and raised in George. The young singer-songwriter started performing in 2016, at the age of 17, initially playing at markets and restaurants. That same year she had the opportunity to perform at the Karoo Stilfees alongside artists such as Joshua Na Die Reën, Lizandra Winter, Len Muller, and Jaco Van Der Merwe, where she forged close friendships. Before pursuing her Diploma in Music at Tshwane University of Technology in 2018, Jaid spent a year learning the ropes from Lizandra Winter and Joshua Na Die Reën. Having obtained her diploma in 2021, Jaid’s focus has since shifted to her music career. In addition to finalising arrangements for her album launch, she is excited about touring the country with her music and collaborating with other artists and songwriters in the future. With her powerful voice and soulful lyrics, Jaid River is set to make a significant impact on the local music industry. Don’t miss the chance to see her live and be a part of the beginning of what promises to be a long and illustrious career. You can also follow her on Facebook, Instagram, YouTube or visit her website.