LIMPOPO – The fourth Ride for a Child charity motorbike ride around South Africa will start this weekend and will visit the most northern, southern, eastern and western points of South Africa accessible by road bike. The first stop of the 7 000km journey will be on February 12 in Louis Trichardt after the crew completes a 422km journey from White River. From Louis Trichardt, they will depart to Lephalale via Musina and Beit Bridge on February 13. The purpose of the mega charity ride is to generate funds for their ‘1 000 surgeries for 1 000 children’ campaign #HELPMYOP which aims to raise awareness of the plight of children who require surgeries and medical treatment but can’t get it due to social and financial factors. “We hope to assist 45 children with surgeries and 400 children with visits to private specialist doctors in 2023,” a media statement reads. Dr Andre, accompanied by a support vehicle, will depart from Pick n Pay at White River Square shopping center in Mpumalanga on February 12 at 09:00 and will arrive back at Pick n Pay at 13:00 on March 4. Dr Andre has already driven 21 000km on his motorbike for sick children and if he successfully completes this year’s charity ride, the distance will be 28 000km for charity and 84 days on the road. Dr Andre will ride the entire route on his trusted Harley Davidson Road King and individual guest riders and motorbike clubs across South Africa are encouraged to join him anywhere en route. Dr Andre is looking forward to seeing the Kalahari, the food of “Ouma kos” in Upington and of course, lunch at Muisbosskerm near Lambert’s Bay in the Western Cape. Dr Andre is the CEO and founder of Pediatric Care Africa which was founded in 2017 and so far, has handed out the equivalent over 2.2 million meals, over 5 000 baby packs containing baby milk/food and nappies etc. to babies and toddlers. The organisation has also assisted 5 895 persons with free medical treatment and 1 390 children were taken to private doctors and specialists of which over 100 received surgeries. “We are making an appeal to companies and private persons to sponsor our rider for R1 per kilometer he completes. Sponsor documents for companies and guest riders are available on our website. We need corporate and individual sponsorship and donations urgently, as without the generosity of companies and individuals, Pediatric Care Africa can not render assistance to people in desperate need,” the statement read. 