After a relatively long period of uncertainty regarding its stance on EVs, Suzuki is designating nearly $35 billion to produce a lineup of EV models that will go on sale in Europe by the end of the decade and one of them could be a Jimny EV. Suzuki Motor Corporation recently revealed its electrification plans for the global market, including India. While Maruti Suzuki will launch six all-electric cars by 2030, Europe could receive five electric cars, including an electrified version of the Jimny. Maruti Suzuki – while being late to the EV party – wants to offer a range of EVs across many segments, its debut of fully-electric models will first be introduced in its home country of Japan in 2023. Europe and India are set to follow in 2024, and within the following six years, Suzuki expects to have between five to six EV models available in these markets. The first of these fully electric Suzuki models is most likely to debut next year, but it probably won’t be the Jimny EV, although it will still be a crossover, possibly the production version of the recently revealed eVX concept. Full details on the Jimny EV are still unclear, but from the teaser images, one can see it still embodies the same bold box shape. The majority of exterior features will still be the same but hopefully, it will offer more functionality and practicality on both its appearance and performance while still fully embodying the spirit of its much-loved predecessor. The current Jimny is a stellar performer in our market, practical and functional, every detail is carefully crafted and translates the vision Suzuki had when they were building the vehicle. The beauty of simplicity and off-road functionality are both realised with its robust exterior. Its strong square body expresses its off-road ability and robustness, as well as contributes to the driver’s situational awareness. Other exterior features include the drip rails on the roof edges, which prevent water ingress into the cabin when opening or closing a door, wheel arch extensions and side sill covers protecting the body from stone chips and rear lamps gathered on the bumper to achieve a simplistic design and also contribute to a wider rear door opening. Ever since the first Jimny made its debut in April 1970, it has been a masterpiece of Suzuki’s 4WD technology. It is the one and only authentic off-roader that is small and lightweight, but still retains the off-road performance desired by professionals. The Jimny has truly evolved in the past years and we are excited to see how well the new EV model will do in the market. Source: CAR Mag