Re-imagined for different passions and lifestyles – from creators to collaborators – the Galaxy S23 and S23+ offer the freedom to choose the right device for your life to take everyday passions further. The Galaxy S23 and S23+ have an iconic rear camera design, with clean and linear camera lenses creating unity across the S series. Accurately capture the beauty in your world with a versatile new 50MP main camera and 12MP front camera, enhanced with Super HDR to capture more lifelike colours. Shoot epic photos and videos even in the dark with improved night-time photo and video functionality, which offers astonishing clarity. Both models perform daily tasks smoothly thanks to the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 Mobile Platform for Galaxy, the fastest and most powerful chipset ever in Galaxy. Enjoy longer-lasting battery life with a battery capacity of 3,900mAh and 4,700mAh on the Galaxy S23 and S23+ respectively, increased by 200mAh each from the previous generation. Justin Hume, Vice President of MX Business at Samsung South Africa, says: “This new Galaxy S series was created to push beyond the limits and redefine what’s possible in a premium smartphone. Building on that promise, Galaxy S23 series has the power of our most advanced mobile technology to bring your world into sharper focus. It is the creator’s pro-grade camera for every day. The gamer’s immersive world on the go.” Take a look at the infographic below and see how the Galaxy S23 and S23+ redefine the essential premium mobile experience and are tailored to your specific needs. To pre-order any of these devices in the latest Galaxy S23 series, please click the links below:  Samsung inspires the world and shapes the future with transformative ideas and technologies. The company is redefining the worlds of TVs, smartphones, wearable devices, tablets, digital appliances, network systems, and memory, system LSI, foundry and LED solutions. For the latest news, please visit the Samsung Newsroom at https://news.samsung.com/za/