POLOKWANE – New Horizon Special School this year celebrates half a century of enriching the lives of children living with disabilities. The school held a special celebration on February 10 with a special guest, Marina van Eeden, who co-founded the school on February 12, 1973. The school has, over the years become as pivotal part of the development and growth of many learners living with disabilities. Van Eeden, who is an honorary president of the Association for People with Disability Limpopo explained that she has three children, and one of them, Karen was born disabled. “When Karen turned seven, she was by law required to attend school. I explained to the headmaster that my daughter was disabled but it was the law back.” Van Eeden relates how she had bought Karen a uniform, but that within two months, the headmaster called her to fetch her daughter. “When I went to fetch her I passed the only special classroom in Noordskool. The teacher saw me pass and tears rolled down her face. I took Karen and when I passed the class again, the teacher gave me a letter in which she had drawn a sun rising, with the words that there would be a new horizon for the family and especially for Karen,” she explained. As a result of that experience, she started a school in her living room, with classes three times a week for two hours. She had four girl learners at the time. With a collective effort of people in the then Pietersburg and Northern Transvaal, New Horizon Special School was founded. Last week, Van Eeden commended the staff at New Horizon for their dedication to the school. “You have enriched and changed the lives of many children in the past 50 years. I watched your growth with pride. Thank you for your dedication, compassion, kindness, gentleness, humility, patience, dignity. A hundred years from now, it will not matter what kind of car you drove, what kind of house you lived in, how much you had in your bank account or how your clothes looked like. What will matter is that the world will be a little better because of you,” she said. A teacher at the school, Lizzie Vogel expressed her gratitude to Van Eeden for returning to the school to celebrate with them. “Today we heard from you, where the heart of the school is. We knew we are a special school; we just did not know how special we are. We know now,” she said. The principal, Robinson Phooko said it has been a pleasure working at such a special school. “It has grown over the years with enrolment figures rising from 145 when I arrived, to 200 learners today. We wish the learners all the best and hope that the education that they receive here will make a difference in their lives and that of their parents and community. I love each and every one of them. I thank the Almighty for giving us a place to work with these learners and give them better quality of life,” he said. He further expressed gratitude to Van Eeden’s parents, saying they gave birth to a child who became the inspiration for school for learners with disabilities. 