Our skin is the largest organ on our body, physically and symbolically protecting us form the outside, and keeping our insides safe. Eczema is a skin condition but it can have a big impact on a child’s emotional and overall well-being. We chat with  Joanna Kleovoulou, Clinical Psychologist, Founder and Director of PsychMatters Centre,for more on this common and frustrating skin condition. Statistics show that one in 10 children have eczema which not only causes very frustrating and debilitating dry and itchy skin but also debilitating a child’s mental wellbeing. Children living with eczema are at a higher risk of: The American Academy of Dermatology (AAD) states that eczema can even affect infants. They may present with irritability, restlessness, labelled as difficult and clingy. Stress and anxiety can trigger eczema. They put the body into fight-or-flight mode, leading to an increase in cortisol. That, in turn, can cause an inflammation in the skin.  In a 2017 study from Korea, it found that students with eczema reported higher rates of feeling depressed, suicidal ideation, planning, and attempts. Children with eczema can learn to manage the condition on a physical, psychological and social level. Educate yourself with the latest medical treatments and creams as these can reduce symptoms which in turn affects their behaviour and emotional wellbeing. However, for people with the condition, it can feel like the opposite. Asking your child about their well-being and acknowledging that managing eczema can be challenging and frustrating may help them feel like someone else gets what they’re going through. Focus on normalising but not pointing out or avoiding conversations about flares when your child is dealing with them. Make sure they know that it isn’t something to be ashamed of and talk with them about being open with their friends about their condition. At the beginning of the school year, talk with your child’s teacher about their eczema. That way, they can provide additional support in the classroom. You may want to ask the teacher to avoid telling children with eczema not to scratch. Instead, they can encourage students to find other ways to relieve the itching, including: You and your child’s teacher should also look for signs of bullying related to the condition. Putting a stop to early teasing and bullying before it turns into a larger problem can help prevent serious mental health issues later on. Stress –  whether from eczema or any other source – can never be permanently prevented, but it can be managed. Teach children coping strategies for stress, such as: If your child is showing signs of depression, anxiety, or another mental health condition, connect them with professional support. Paediatric psychologists and therapists are trained to identify mental health disorders in children and help them develop personalised tools for managing symptoms. In some cases, medication may also be used to treat certain mental health disorders in kids. 