The historic South African venue, Kyalami Grand Prix Circuit, will serve as a local battleground for GT3 race cars in a five-race global series. The K9H Motorfest will showcase top GT race drivers and manufacturers, delivering over 180 race cars in six support categories and 12 hours of racing action per day. At the opening round in Australia, Mercedes-AMG took the chequered flag, triumphing over Porsche with a 0.9-second margin after 12 hours of intense racing. The Kyalami 9 Hour (K9H) race will begin at 13:00 next week Saturday after the second race for the support categories starting at 07:05. On Thursday, the public can attend the K9H night practice session for the first time, in a spectacular display of driving prowess in the darkness. Official qualifying sessions will be held for all categories on Friday morning, and the first CompCare Polo Cup race will start at 12:25. On Friday afternoon, there will be races, with a break at 15:00 for K9H qualifying. The Wild Rose Gin Sports and GT race, which is an hour long and will go on until it gets dark, will begin at 18:05. There will be 180 national competitors at the K9H Motorfest. Some of these are from the GTC/Supacup, CompCare Polo Cup, Investchem Formula Ford, Mobil 1 V8 Supercars, and BMW M Performance Parts Race Series. Also, the first round of the Investchem Formula 1600 championship will be the last part of this great support race schedule. Attractions at the K9H Motorfest will include a display and demonstration of classics from yesteryear. Mercedes-Benz simulators in the ATK Arena also offer prizes to winners, and the Toyota Gazoo Racing Team will show how to do gymkana on the skid pad, which is next to the food court and the Heineken bar and entertainment area. General admission tickets will cost anywhere from R250 on Thursday (free for kids under six years old and R75 for kids six–12 years old) to R550 on Saturday (children between six and 12 years old cost R250). General access ticket holders can buy a limited pitlane walk ticket for R200. It’s important to remember that there are limited tickets available. Braais are permitted and people are encouraged to come out and celebrate with their friends and family. You can buy parking at the venue separately through the Ticketmaster website. On Saturday, K9H trackside tickets can be bought at Clubhouse Corner for R1 850. These tickets include parking, a lounge, a cash bar, and food from a number of vendors. Shared VIP pitlane hospitality lounge hospitality packages start at R 2 875 and are available from noon to midnight on Friday. It comes with a lounge with a TV showing SuperSport races, snacks before lunch, lunch, and afternoon snacks, a free local bar with beer, wine, and soft drinks, and VIP parking. The VIP pitlane hospitality lounge on Saturday costs R5 175 and gives you access to the viewing deck and a prime spot on the track. Breakfast, lunch, and dinner are all served, and from 10:00 to 22:00, there is a free bar open all day. It also has VIP-only parking and a K9H pitlane walk before the race. Tickets can be purchased at Ticketmaster while those unfortunate to attend can view all support races and K9H action live on SuperSport or on YouTube @GTWorld and @Kyalami9Hour. Read the original story on CAR Mag.