LIMPOPO – Tshepo Makwela, Ponagatsho Moripa and Mpho Tshishonga from Rivoni School for The Blind near Elim made their school proud when the province’s Gr 12 matric results were announced on January 20. Tshepo was named the top candidate in the public special school category with six distinctions, while Ponagatsho followed in second place with four distinctions. Mpho was in third place with two distinctions. Over the years, the school has produced a 100% pass rate with very limited resources and poor conditions and facilities. Tshepo was elated about his achievement, saying his family was supportive of his education. He was excited when he was invited to the breakfast function of the Minister of Basic Education, Angie Motshekga with the 30 top learners in South Africa on January 20. “I was extremely happy and I thank God for his unconditional love. I didn’t expect to be a top learner. Matric was sometimes draining. I would get depressed, but I kept myself motivated. I used to start my day early, so that I could be ahead; I guess I did catch the fattest worm,” he said. You might also want to read: Taxila’s Phenyo brags as Limpopo’s top learner “I managed to achieve such excellent results because of my dedication, drive, passion and my hunger for success. And I also want to put it out there that just because you are disabled doesn’t mean you cannot succeed in something. To this year’s matric class, my advice would be to work hard. Matric is not child’s play. They must sacrifice everything, don’t go to parties, and focus. If you put pressure on yourself now, you can have pleasure later.” Tshepo is going to the University of Johannesburg where he applied to the faculty of education. His dream is to become a teacher and help others like himself. Principal Conny Mabaso said that compassion, patience and love were key ingredients in facilitating learners’ academic growth. She attributed the success of the school to the teamwork, commitment and passion of the teachers and support staff. “Love is everything and when disabled learners know that they are loved and appreciated, they tend to give their all and study even harder. Over the years, the experience I gathered working with special-needs learners has taught me to always practise patience while teaching them, which I believe is something my colleagues also do. Most of the learners take their education seriously because they know it is vital for their future success and independence,” said Mabaso. 