On offer locally since 2015, Fiat has now introduced the latest iteration of their subcompact 500X SUV. First things first, as with many Italian products under the Stellantis umbrella, ageing doesn’t seem to manifest itself as harshly in comparison to some of its newer, fresher competitors. The 500X has been on offer in more or less the same form locally for almost eight years and while the evolution it has undergone during this time speaks volumes, what remains stylistically, is a fashionable SUV that arguably stands out from the monotony of the segment. That being said, Fiat has decided to usher in a completely new model into the simplified, three-model lineup. Serving as an entry-level offering is the Cross, while a well-equipped Sport derivative serves as the middle-of-the-road offering. Want to have a cabriolet, top-down experience in an affordable subcompact SUV? Fiat has got you covered and is now offering a range-topping Sport Extended Soft Top (EST) model which is unrivalled in the segment. The open-air experience of the EST provides a single colour, fabric sunroof that extends almost the entire length of the surface above. With the pending rain threatening throughout the day of launch, a 15s close time on the panoramic addition was frequently and frantically called upon once small droplets began entering the cabin. This operation can be completed on the fly too, if the 500X is travelling under 100km/h. With a few rogue droplets dappled on some surfaces in the cabin, now was the time to tactfully clean them off and get an impression of the interior build quality. The Italian SUV boasts an impressive combination of soft-touch materials on all surfaces the driver interacts with such as the steering wheel and gear knob. The dashboard and doors boast the same satisfying supple feeling, finished in a variety of different materials – something the Fiat excels at when compared to some chief rivals. The interior does have its drawbacks though. The most obvious would be the significantly small infotainment screen of only seven-inches which welcomes screen replication through Apple CarPlay and Android Auto. Clarity and operation is fast and unhindered, but the size, particularly for users who may have impaired vision, will have a hindered experience. Once in the driver’s seat, the most noticeable aspect of the display is two periscope analogue clusters which signal the speedometer and tachometer. These, in their timeless beauty, have begun showing their age in the new car market, with most models on offer opting for full digital displays. These dials both flank a 3.5-inch TFT colour cluster that provides driving information and statistics. On the Sport model, the binnacle cover and parts of the steering wheel have been finished in Alcantara which alludes to a far more engaging drive underneath. So what of it then? The steering proved to be comfortably light on the open road but more on the vague side when immediate and direct manoeuvres at speed were required. In the same breath, navigating narrow roads and parking bays was a breeze, proving it better suited as its intended function of being an urban commuter. Spaciousness in the front row of seats is deceptively more than expected, however, taller passengers upfront compromise legroom for those in the rear. Storage space is aplenty, with two glove compartments to choose from in front of the passenger seat. On the open road though, the peppy 1.4-litre turbocharged petrol motor achieved commendable fuel consumption. With a claimed 5.7L/100 km in a combined cycle, the digital display after the first stint of the journey to Roodeplaat Dam demonstrated a meagre 6.3L/100 km, despite momentary bursts of acceleration and a heavy right foot. With less than 800km on the odometer, this number could be bettered even further once the engine had been properly run in. This alone proves it a worthy adversary against the much thirstier but well-valued Chinese competitors in the segment. Slight turbo-lag was present under 2 000r/min of the 103kW and 230Nm unit but once it got the mass beneath it going, with the six-speed DDCT transmission comfortably shifting cogs, the drive proved pleasant and refined. On the other hand, the rutted Gauteng roads put the 19-inch rims of the Sport model through their paces, which felt slightly stiffer in comparison to the 18-inch derivatives on the Cross which was driven back to Johannesburg. Overall, the shared Jeep Renegade platform which underpins the stylish Italian performs its job sufficiently well but isn’t at the top of the list for dynamism and comfort. That brings us to its styling, something that the Italians know a thing or two about. The latest iteration of the 500X has been modernised to better align itself with the rest of Fiat’s lineup, namely the far smaller and eternally beautiful 500, of which it shares its design aesthetic. Up front, the standard LED headlamps and LED fog lamps flank a new 500 logo, which replaces the previous Fiat lettering. While the entry-level Cross model boasts black cladding on its extremities with roof rails atop, better suited to urban adventuring, the Sport and Sport EST models include colour-coded wheel arch mouldings, side skirts and dual chrome exhaust tips at the rear which do present a product that looks far more athletic. On the outside, on both iterations, it hardly looks like a nearly-decade-old platform. Like many other offerings from Stellantis, the Fiat 500X lineup will include all derivative-specific niceties as standard, which means prospective buyers don’t have to complete a shopping list worth of add-ons, bloating an attractive base price by a significant amount. However, with the 500X Cross starting at R509 900 and the range-topping 500X Sport EST completing the lineup at R580 900, the Italian SUV will have to bat its eyelashes with its charisma to win buyers over in the cut-throat segment. Now offered as standard, modern technology includes lane assist, voice recognition, six-airbags, ABS, ESP and hill-holder. All Fiat 500X will be included with a five-year/100 000km warranty and three-year/60 000km service plan. Read the original story on CAR Mag.