This year, Audi celebrates 25 years of the Audi TT and marks the final rendition of the R8’s baby brother. The prototype was unveiled to the world at the 1995 Frankfurt Motor Show, with the real-world counterpart related a year later slightly altered yet retaining the original silhouette. “The crisp, Bauhaus-inspired lines of the sports coupé look as fresh today as they did back in 1998 and to mark the model’s incredible success here in the UK our Final Edition combines everything our customers love about this iconic model,”says Audi UK director Andrew Doyle. The Final Edition models are beautified using a litany of black accents found on the mirror caps, Audi badge, rollover bars and tailpipes. These black styling cues are shared between the Roadster and coupe variants. Both Final Edition configurations share a diamond cut 20-inch five-spoke Y-style wheel finished in matte black. The TTS Final Edition variants are equipped with Audi Sport seven-spoke rotors, anthracite black alloys housing red brake callipers. Potential owners have the option to paint their Final Edition model in tango red, glacier white or chronos grey metallic. From door pull handles to centre console trim, leather can be found adorning various amenities of the interior. The Final Edition receives an Alcantara-wrapped steering wheel accentuated by the red stripe positioned as the 12:00 marker. Sporting an Alcantara trim bearing matching red stitching while red piping characterises the floor mats. Although not bearing any hardware upgrades, the Final Edition is outfitted with the Audi Technology Pack as standard, which endows it with MMI Navigation Plus in addition to the MMI Touch and Audi Connect Infotainment Services. On the TTS, Audi’s comfort and sound packages are standard which introduces a Bang & Olufsen sound system, advanced key fob, reverse camera and parking sensors. The TTS Final Edition Coupe will cost £54 685 or roughly R1.2 million, while the Roadster variant will be priced slightly north of the coupe. With the Iconic Edition of the TT RS signalling the end of the model’s highest rung variant, the TT and TTS Final Edition serve as the curtain closer to one of Audi’s most established nameplates, which managed to secure 2 672 sales in the UK during 2022. While we are seeing the final run of many beloved nameplates, Audi seeks to replace many of its titles in the coming years. No word yet on whether South Africa will be allocated a few of the Final Edition units. Read the original story on CAR Mag.