In the past three years, the current Toyota Hilux has come under pressure from a wave of overhauled competitors; the new Isuzu D-Max V-cross, Mazda BT-50, Ford Ranger and the new Volkswagen Amarok all came out guns blazing to secure the top spot. Now sharing the same DNA as the Toyota Tacoma and the Toyota Tundra, recent renderings that surfaced on social media show the next-generation Hilux with a beefier and more muscular body. The eighth-generation Hilux has been around since 2015 and despite two consecutive facelifts in 2017 and 2020 it has started showing its age in terms of styling.  These unofficial renders from DigiMods Design and KDesign suggest the all-new 2025 Toyota Hilux is expected to borrow a few design cues from its siblings, the most visible update is the redesigned front fascia sending Tundra vibes. It includes a massive grille with a horizontal pattern with a centred Toyota logo and a black skid plate. The renderings also show new vertically positioned bumper intakes connected to the headlights. The all-new model isn’t expected until 2024 or even 2025, which is still a long way away to go and by then the Toyota Hilux will be facing an army of newer, and maybe more powerful bakkies. Related: Toyota Hilux GR-S 2,8 GD-6 4X4 automatic – Into the wild part 1 Toyota has not released technical information regarding the Hilux. We still don’t know if it will have the option of a turbodiesel V6 powertrain.  The Japanese automaker is known to be secretive when it comes to future model plans, the vehicle is also still years away from hitting showrooms so more information from Toyota will surely be made available in due time. However, the next Toyota Hilux is expected to be based on all-new underpinnings, a version of the TNGA-F chassis that forms the basis of the new Toyota Tundra pick-up, Toyota Tacoma and the LandCruiser 300 Series 4WD. Toyota has already announced plans to introduce electrified power across nearly all models, including the Hilux by the end of the decade, but it is unclear if hybrid, electric, or hydrogen technology would be chosen for the Hilux. 