POLOKWANE – Newly appointed assistant coach of Noordelikes Rugby Club, Hendrik van Jaarsveldt says he aims for success. Hendrik was appointed in January and will be the assistant to Arno Hannekom who took over the head coach position last year. Read more: Noordelikes strengthen technical team with new appointments Hendrik said their aim is to put Noordelikes back on the map. “We are a good club and I will implore a more aggressive style in the rugs, defense and line-outs. We stand a chance of winning the league and I am happy to join Noordelikes again; there are good people and talented players at Noordelikes. I believe my coaching style is unique and with rugby, it is good to be different.” As is the case with many coaches, Hendrik stated playing the game at a young age. “I started playing rugby at six. I liked that it is a sport in which it takes a team to win and teh more you practise, the less chance of defeat. My dad was in the police service, and with that I grew up in a very disciplined home. He was my coach in my sport, and always gave me advice on ways to see what my opponent’s next move will be, to be better and to always stay humble. Never be bigger than the sport. If you want to partake in a sport you have to put in time to be the best at it. My mom enjoyed judo and netball, among others, and had a sporting spirit like myself. She was my biggest fan and medic when it was needed. I was a shy boy but was a beast on the sport fields.” “I played u/13 Craven Week when I was in Laerskool Krugerpark as lock. Then I went to Hoërskool Pietersburg and played hooker. I had no idea how to throw the ball in a line-out but my dad showed me how and I practised for hours and months to improve. Then I had to change schools and went to Noorderland High School. I played for the first team and it was scary because my team mates were much older, but nevertheless I was awarded as junior rugby player of the year. I played in the u/16 Craven Week C-team, meaning if someone needed to be replaced in the A or B team, I would be called up, this opened doors for me as I received a bursary to play for Hans Merensky. Later I was named the upcoming forward of the year and in my senior years was named captain of the first team and scored the most tries in that year.” He was also invited to play trials for the u/19 Blue Bulls professional side when he was 19 years old. “It was the hardest and most growling practises in my life. They wanted perfection and they paid for it, so that is what you will produce. I received the most advanced player of the year award and was named in the baby Springboks practise squad and even received a contract to play for Edinburgh in Scotland, but because of injuries my professional rugby days were over.” He says he will always cherish the time he had in the sub-union’s u/23 team and other rugby structures. “I played for a couple of years sub-union u/23, then for the senior side. Then I started coaching Noordelikes’ third team, and from there I coached Dendron Rugby Club’s second league, but as a consultant and assistant coach. I was also shortlisted to be the coach for the Super 14 Waratahs but did not get the job because I had no coaching experience in the Super Rugby league, but I do feel it’s a win when even other countries can see I am a good coach.” He sees himself coaching in a professional league for a union that wants to see more victories. “Limpopo is where the future Springboks are coached and I hope this union will give us good coaches the opportunity to show just that. We have talent here.” 