Maths is a compulsory subject for all students to take into Grade 12, yet last year only 37% of all matrics wrote the final paper. Nearly half of those failed Maths – unable to achieve the minimum mark of 30%. With Maths being essential to many career paths tied to South Africa’s future development and growth, it’s essential to address this crisis at its foundation: children under the age of six. “Establishing a sense of numeracy is one of the fundamentals of early childhood development,” says Candice Potgieter, CEO of The Unlimited Child, an early childhood education and skills development non-profit organisation. “At this critical period of life, children are incredibly receptive to learning, however only if they’re provided with the right conditions and right stimulation in their pre-school years.” There are four stages of early childhood development according to the South African National Curriculum Framework, where age-appropriate activities to build an early familiarity with numbers and counting should be encouraged. The first stage starts with babies, from birth until 18 months of age. The toddler stage includes children from a year and half to 36 months, then young children from 3 to 4 years of age. Next is the pre-Grade R stage until a child is six years old. These early years are where the first foundations for numeracy and problem-solving are laid. This is also where developmental gaps need to be monitored through a child’s general emotional, social and physical well-being. This is expressed in their language, sounds, art, actions, and later in their writing. “Understanding when a child is lagging behind their developmental milestones can be challenging for many parents and caregivers, and this is often a great cause of concern,” says Potgieter. She says some of the early signs to watch out for include a young child that has difficulty paying an age-appropriate level of attention, has a slow growth in vocabulary, and confuses objects, letters, and numbers. Understanding maths is critical to raising a well-rounded child. Helping young children enjoy basic maths and number concepts is something that parents and caregivers can do themselves in their own homes, as a seamless part of their daily routine. The Unlimited Child shares some tips to ensure children can be given the best start in their early years so that they consider numbers and counting to be fun challenges as they advance through school. 