POLOKWANE – The provincial police commissioner Lieutenant General Thembi Hadebe has commended members of the Highway Patrol Team and the Flying Squad for various arrests made recently in and around Polokwane. Police spokesperson Brigadier Motlafela Mojapelo highlighted some of the arrests that were mostly drug related but also included arrests for possession of unlicenced firearms and business robbery. Drug related arrests Two suspects were arrested separately in Polokwane after they were found in possession of drugs. Mojapelo said 200 sachets of nyaope and three sachets of crystal meth with a street value of R10 000 and R5 000, respectively, were confiscated during the arrests. A 40-year-old man was arrested at the Indian Centre in the Polokwane CBD in possession of 40 sachets of nyaope, while a 36-year-old man was arrested for dealing and possession of crystal meth and rock in Westenburg worth an estimated street value of R20 000. Meanwhile, three suspects between the ages of 28 and 41-years-old were arrested in the Makgofe village for dealing and possession of dagga. “Police were conducting routine patrols and received information about a vehicle known to distribute dagga in Lithuli Park and Moletji Mmotong. The vehicle was then spotted at Makgofe. They stopped it, and searched it and found dagga with estimated value of R5 000,” he said. Unlicensed firearms and business robbery arrests Three suspects between the ages of 35 and 38-years-old were arrested in Westenburg last Friday (February 10) for possession of an unlicensed firearm, conspiracy to commit house breaking and possession of housebreaking implements. Mojapelo said police recovered a firearm, hand gloves, screw drivers, pliers, a hammer, balaclavas, spanners and a Toyota bakkie was seized. The following day, a 40-year-old suspect was arrested for a business robbery at Percy Wholesale in Moletjie. “Police followed up on leads and found a black sedan allegedly used to commit the robbery and some of the stolen items that included alcohol, cigarettes, computers and a Plasma TV stored in a garage in Ivy Park, Polokwane,” his statement read. Mojapelo said some of the suspects have already begun appearing before local magistrate’s courts. 