POLOKWANE – The death toll of Monday’s (February 13) horror head-on collision on the N1 north has climbed to 21. Twenty-one people were killed when a bus and a cash-in-transit van collided, resulting in scores of other injured passengers being taken to various hospitals in the Vhembe District. Read more: N1 head-on collision involving bus claims 20 lives The Department of Transport reported that the cash-in-transit truck lost control and collided head-on with an oncoming bus on the N1 northbound after the Hendrik Verwoerd tunnel towards Musina. Transport spokesperson Tidimalo Chuene said the bus was transporting passengers from Louis Trichardt to the Ndzhelele, Siloam and Tshikombani areas. “The bus overturned near a river and the police diving team have been activated to search for people who might have been swept away.” On Tuesday (February 14), the MEC for Transport and Community Safety Florence Radzilani visited survivors in various hospitals and committed to ensuring the conclusion of the accident report so that the victims can claim from the Road Accident Fund. The Deputy Minister of Transport Sindisiwe Chikunga, Radzilani and the Executive Mayor of the Vhembe District Municipality, Dowelani Nenguda are expected to join the deceased’s families today (Februaury 15) to identify their remains. A media briefing is also expected at the scene of the collision later today. “Various entities of the state have also been activated to provide assistance and support to the families of the deceased and the injured following the crash, including professional counselling services and possible material support,” Chuene said. Meanwhile, the President Cyril Ramaphosa offered his condolences to the deceased’s families and wished the survivors a speedy recovery. “Incidents like this impact severely on families who lose loved ones as well on survivors or witnesses who are affected physically or psychologically when such tragedy happens. Incidents of this kind also have economic consequences for the people involved and for the businesses they may operate or in which they are employed,” his statement read. Ramaphosa said motorists should endeavour to travel safely and treat South Africa’s roads as a shared amenity. “A second of haste or impatience can result in a lifetime of loss and pain and there is no risk that is worth taking no matter what your experience may be as a driver. 