POLOKWANE – The Department of Education has seen a string of protests in recent weeks, with the latest a march by local learners. Last Wednesday, those affiliated with the Congress of South African Students (Cosas) submitted a list of demands to the provincial department’s headquarters and subsequently, Eskom Limpopo citing among others, the urgent installation of back-up energy systems in schools and the upgrading of scholar transportation. Multiple buses ferried learners from respective public schools across the province to SABC Park in the capital city, from where they moved in peaceful protest wearing school uniforms. The congress’ national chairperson who hails from Limpopo, Sello Mahladisha said power cuts are the intolerable factor contributing to learners who do not perform at their best. He said they support calls for President Cyril Ramaphosa to declare load-shedding as a national state of disaster, as learners discontinue routines to study in large groups at set venues, among some of the reasons. Upon questioning whether they were not worried about missing a day of learning, they maintained a stance that a single day out of school was necessary given the state of discomfort they are faced with. “The department also does not pull up its socks for the sake of learners who in awful weather conditions miss classes because of not having transport. This is the only day dedicated to remind them of this heavy plight,” Mahladisha explained. In a continuous effort to provide transport solutions to under-privileged learners, the department has supported an initiative to provide 257 bicycles to the deserving leaners at secondary schools in the Vhembe district. The department has planned to allocate a total of 1 400 bicycles for Limpopo in the 2023/24 financial year, according to media liaison officer, Mike Maringa. The Education Department’s memorandum of demands was received by the chief financial officer, Yvonne Mathabatha while a separate one was directed to Eskom. A seven-day deadline lapsed on Wednesday and Cosas still awaits responses from both offices. 