LIMPOPO – The death toll in last Monday afternoon’s horror bus accident on the N1 north just before the Hendrik Verwoerd tunnel had risen to 22 by last Wednesday morning. Read more: N1 bus collision: Police divers retrieve body from Phandanama river The deceased were mostly commuters returning home after work, with survivors claiming that the accident could have been caused by negligence. The accident occurred just after 17:00 on February 13. According to a media statement issued by the provincial Department of Transport and Community Safety shortly afterwards, the driver of a cash-in-transit vehicle had lost control and collided head-on with the Mabirimisa bus. The bus overturned, and rolled down a steep embankment into a nearby river, trapping many of the passengers underneath it. One survivor, Freddy Salani said he boarded the bus at 16:30, never suspecting his journey home to end in a deadly collision. After the impact, Salani said he did not know what happened next. “I only heard the bang when the bus crashed into other vehicles. I could not see, because I was seated at the back. I am thankful to be alive.” Robert Mabirimisa who spoke to CV on behalf of the bus company, said he was shocked about the loss of so many lives. “We express our condolences to the bereaved families and wish the injured a speedy recovery.” He said an investigation was underway to determine the cause of the collision. Messages of condolence to the bereaved families have been streaming in. These include messages of condolences from the MEC for Transport and Mayor of Vhembe, Dowelani Nenguda. The chairperson of the Zoutpansberg Community Development Forum, Patrick Sikhutshi, also expressed his shock. “Our thoughts and prayers are with the families of the deceased during this time of grief, and we wish a speedy recovery to the injured ones. This organisation shares the heartache and is saddened that so many lives continue to be lost on South African roads.” In the meantime, provincial police spokesperson Brig Motlafela Mojapelo urged motorists to be extra cautious when driving. He condemned any form of reckless driving, especially speeding, by drivers along the roads. “The cause of this accident is still not clear at this stage and investigations continue.” 