Mercedes-Benz Vans’ new eSprinter range will come to South Africa in 2024. The range will excel in its freedom to offer customers an opportunity to customise their eSprinter to fit their requirements. “The front module, a uniformly designed front section, includes all high-voltage components and can be combined unchanged with all vehicle variants, regardless of wheelbase and battery size,” says Mercedes. “The module for the integrated high-voltage battery is located in the underbody to save space. The battery location between the axles, together with the robust battery housing, results in a low centre of gravity, which has a positive influence on handling and increases driving safety. The third pillar of the modular design is the rear module with the electrically driven rear axle. Following the principle of the common parts strategy, this is used in all variants of the new eSprinter. The compact and powerful electric motor is also integrated into the rear module.”  The new eSprinter is versatile and efficient The eSprinter is fitted with a large 113kWh battery. The electric range, based on a simulation using the WLTP cycle, will be up to 400km. The simulated range based on the WLTP city cycle will be up to 500km. These ranges also make the vehicle ideal for longer journeys. The motor is available in two power levels, with 100 or 150kW of peak output, and torque of up to 400Nm. Like all Mercedes-Benz eVans, the new eSprinter is capable of charging with both alternating current (AC) and direct current (DC). The eSprinter’s attractive base makes it ideal for use in various sectors, and body converters and manufacturers will have a field day in terms of customisation. “As we embark on a new era of sustainable mobility, we are proud to announce that the eSprinter will offer a game-changing solution for businesses and individuals looking for a cost-effective, environmentally friendly mode of transportation. This marks a significant milestone in our commitment to creating a more sustainable future for all,” Nadia Trimmel, president of Mercedes-Benz Vans South Africa, said. Source: MotorPress