POLOKWANE – The service delivery protest expected to start at the Seshego Circle Centre on Wednesday morning (February 22) will affect roads in an out of Polokwane. Residents of Seshego and the extensions will use Nelson Mandela Drive towards the SABC Park to join residents from Ga-Matlala, Ga-Maja, Ga-Mphahlele and some areas of Polokwane in protest to multiple local, provincial and national government institutions based in the inner city. Inconsistent water supply, high water and electricity bills, load-shedding and other issues are the outcries tallied in memorandums of demand, which will be distributed. Their plan includes marching to the premier’s office, South African Local Government Association (SALGA), Eskom Limpopo, the Polokwane Municipality and the African National Congress’ provincial house. The residents say they chose these institutions as they have the ability to fix their issues.  The following streets will be affected: One of the organisers, Flora Chueu said the march will be peaceful and will be joined by various provincial stakeholders including members of the South African Council of Churches (SACC), the local business sector, the elderly and farmers associations to quell the thirst of frustration. “We desire to find responses that will serve us well as residents We have all been negatively impacted and are inviting people to join the march in good faith,” she said. Taxi associations such as the Seshego Polokwane Taxi Association have reserved the right to confirm whether they would join the march or not. Meanwhile, the Polokwane Municipality confirmed the legality of the protest, adding that disruption is discouraged. “Children must be allowed to go to school, businesses must be allowed to operate and people must be able to go to work. No one must be forced to participate in a march against own will. The Polokwane Municipality also condemns acts of violence or vandalism on public infrastructure. Any violent protest or conduct and sabotage of infrastructure is discouraged because it will not solve any problem,” a statement read. The municipality’s condemning of acts of violence follows the last protest by Seshego residents in October 2022 in which the streets of Polokwane were brought to a standstill over the water crisis in the city. At the time, Landdros Mare Street was strewn with debris as hundreds of protesters marched accompanied by taxis ferrying people before the protesters moved  to the N1 and blocked the national road with rocks. Read more: Community Safety MEC blasts anarchy by Seshego residents 