POLOKWANE – Victims of ongoing floods in Nirvana request that the local municipality be quick in the repairs of stormwater drains in that area. This follows disastrous flooding two weeks ago and a weather service warning by experts that heavy rainfall would continue. Read more: WATCH: Polokwane floods after heavy thunderstorm Numerous households in Nirvana had their belongings damaged from excess water that flowed passed non-function stormwater drain into their yards. “We could not contain the water. It went as far as into out bedrooms and ruined our appliances.” The morning after the flash floods on February 2, learners who walk to school did so in floods as the stormwater drains failed to properly drain the water. One parent says she had to take her children to a doctor after they got sick, adding insult to injury. “They ended up not going to school on Friday because they were sneezing and coughing from walking in the water. I felt guilty for not allowing them to go to school because of the weather and since the school is within walking distance, I never thought it would come to that.”  Municipal communications manager, Matshidiso Mothapo said routine maintenance is done quarterly, contrary to what many residents believe. He said human behaviour contributes to the damages. Read more: Flash floods: City’s drainage systems not up to task “Some of the blockages are caused by members of the public by dumping into the stormwater system. Items such as diapers, dead animals, rocks and spoilt food usually swept into the drainage system, are found in the pipes,” he explained. Polokwane Mayor, John Mpe shortly after the ordeal on February 2, announced the allocation of R6m that would additionally be appropriated towards restoring the city’s evidently dysfunctional stormwater drains. Some of the capital would come from the roads maintenance fund. He however, has not clarified when the project would commence. Some disaster management employees of the municipality were seen cleaning up the damage done during the recent flash floods, which left the city strewn with debris. Trees were uprooted, buildings were damaged, while some areas in the CBD were heavily flooded. The municipality has issued a communique that whoever has been affected and requires assistance should visit their offices in Landdros Maré Street. 