For 13-year-old Ntiyiso Mabubda, the road to international recognition and success has started. He was selected by Motorsport South Africa to represent the country in the FIA Karting Academy Trophy series. Vic Maharaj, Motorsport South Africa sporting services manager, says this is a great opportunity for young stars like Ntiyiso to showcase their talent and be noticed globally by the racing teams across the spectrum, including the coveted Formula One. The academy, which has already produced the likes of Charles Leclerc and George Russell driving for the Ferrari and Mercedes F1 teams respectively, runs a three event season during the course of the year in Spain, Germany and Italy to crown a winner. Only one driver per country is selected from the 12 to 14-year age group. They race in the OKJ class. Ntiyiso, who turned 13 in December, is no stranger to racing, having started training at just seven years of age. His mum and dad, Nomsa and Alex, are also integrally involved in the sport, as is his older brother Mahlori (14) is the reigning regional OKJ champion for the Northern Regions. Both boys first competitive karting season was in 2018. Karting dictates focus and dedication. Ntiyiso, together with three other drivers, including his brother, is part of the Perfomante Programme at Squadra Corse, the leading team he races under, owned by legend, Mpho Gumbi. Ntuyiso’s day starts at 05:00 every day and activities included track activities, boxing and/or gym, eye gym, hiking and other outdoor activities, regular sessions with a sport psychologist, and online simulator racing. “We hope with this new opportunity that he will be noticed as a budding racing talent with great promise for a future at the pinnacle of motorsport, where diversity remains a challenge.  Fortunately, it is something both the FIA, alongside influential voices such as that of Lewis Hamilton, are seeking to actively address. We hope he can attract sponsorships to overcome the prohibitive cost of pursuing a career in racing,” says Alex. Source: Cathy Findley PR 