LIMPOPO – Several damaged bridges and roads in Vhembe’s rural areas have had to be closed since February 10, because of heavy rain in the area. Residents who live in mountainous areas have had to park their vehicles near main roads as roads leading to their homes became impassable. The affected areas include Makwarani, Maraxwe, Vhutalu, Tshipako, Tshiwani, Tshidzivhe, Tshilungwi, Mudzidzi and Tshakhuma. Motorists who use the main roads from these areas have to drive with great caution as parts of the roads are badly damaged, and trees were also uprooted in many areas along these roads. You might also want to read: Flash floods: City’s drainage systems not up to task Learners from Tswinga and Muledane were recently forced to cross the flooded Dzindi River on foot. Parents are seen accompanying their children, out of fear that they may be swept away by the current. “The water level is above our knees, so we just cling to each others’ hands,” one of the learners, Takalani Mushiana related. The spokesperson for the Vhembe District Municipality, Matodzi Ralushai, said all four municipalities under Vhembe had been greatly affected by the rain so far. Some areas have no water as pipes were washed away. He said that the affected communities were now forced to use alternative roads to get to work or school and run their daily errands. “Most of the bridges were left with structural problems, while others are under water. We have sent out a disaster team, and we are visiting the various areas affected by the floods. We are pleading with parents to warn their children not to swim in the dams or play near the rivers, as there are a lot of crocodiles,” said Ralushai. He warned residents who live close to rivers and streams to evacuate to a safer place or higher spot when the water level rises. “When you cross a flowing river where the water reaches above your ankles, turn back and use an alternative route. Never try to walk, swim or drive in swift-flowing water as it can sweep you off your feet. Do not drive over a low-water bridge if the water is flowing strongly across it,” he cautioned. 