POLOKWANE – The impact of the periodic rainfall this year, has not only ruined the state of untarred roads in Ext 71, but also exacerbated the number of potholes in the area. Flash floods experienced in the city on February 1 made matters worse for residents, as the potholes caused by running water now formed multiple streams near where local children play. You might also want to read: Potholes across Polokwane are being attended to – Municipality In this township, most children return home from school every day to households without supervision, as most adults spend large parts of their days at work in the city. Children from as young as four years old know their way around, and are used to following parental orders on how to remain safe, even in their absence. Because of their geographical location, most of these parents don’t earn enough to pay childminders, and those in the area now plead with the local municipality to repair roads by at least levelling the muddy soil to avoid children getting injured. The condition of the main road has seen a reroute by some drivers passing through to Greenside and Ext 44 into the central business district because of the fear that their valued wheels would not be able to pass through the potholes. They have tallied the concerned parents’ request for the Polokwane Municipality to, as a temporary measure, level the road. Even so, their requests have in the past fallen onto deaf ears, they told BONUS. “During previous community meetings, we requested the municipality to complete the tarring, but after 11 years we have lost all faith that this will actually be done,” one resident said. Municipal marketing and communications manager, Matshidiso Mothapo says the municipality has started working on levelling grounds in affected areas, simultaneously with the filling of potholes. The municipality’s storm water and roads unit, on Friday last week filled up potholes in Witklip Street and said they would end in Market Street for the day. 