Volvo Trucks, always pushing the envelope, now introduces trucks that can run on liquified biogas and yes, it may well become available in South Africa. Biogas, also referred to as bio-LNG, is a renewable fuel that is produced from sources like organic waste and can reduce CO2 emissions by up to 100%. “Biogas is a great complement to electric transports, helping haulers with their sustainability ambitions and aims towards climate neutral transports,” says Waldemar Christensen, MD of Volvo Trucks South Africa. “That is especially true for Southern Africa, where fleets need to travel long distances to deliver cargo across the region for which bio-LNG trucks, with their larger 225kg fuel tanks and a range of up to 1 000km, would be ideal.” The gas-powered trucks, the Volvo FH and FM, are getting a new power level of 500hp, joining the previous 420 and 460hp engines. The gas engines also get a major technical upgrade that make them up to 4% more fuel efficient, which together with a new 10% larger gas tank, contributes to a longer range.  Eric Parry, sustainability solutions manager at Volvo Trucks South Africa, points out that there is no single solution that can solve climate change. “The strengthened gas-powered line-up fits well with Volvo Trucks three-path strategic roadmap to reach zero emissions: battery electric trucks, fuel cell trucks and combustion engines that run on renewable fuels like biogas, HVO or even green hydrogen,” explains Parry. In South Africa, the first Volvo electric trucks will arrive in March 2023. However, LNG and Bio-LNG infrastructure, supply and dispensing are still a major challenge in the country. “Several technical solutions are needed because the availability of energy and fuel infrastructure differs greatly between countries and regions, and also because the requirements for each transport assignment can vary,” comments Parry. “However, locally we are in a position to work with customers and suppliers to bring bio-LNG vehicles in as needed.” Facts about Volvo’s gas-powered trucks:  Facts about liquified gas: Source: Tanje Wandrag