POLOKWANE – Northern Academy High School was awarded as the top independent school by Department of Education at the Limpopo matric awards on January 20. The school’s Class of 2022 achieved a 91.9% pass rate which saw 439 learners pass their examination while 200 learners achieved bachelor degree passes. Rad more: Limpopo’s matric pass rate improves by 5% Headmaster Frederick Romijn has attributed the achievement to the learner’s hard work and the sacrifices they made throughout the year. “This is a huge improvement from last year’s results. This was a collective effort. The teachers and learners worked hard towards their academic programme. The matric learners wrote eight tests a week as part of the preparation for the examination. We always encouraged them to use every opportunity to study, and they did. We are proud of their achievements and we will help them well in their tertiary education.” Tapiwanashe Mukonoweshuro, top learner at the school with eight distinctions advised the 2023 class to start preparing for the exams as early as the first day in class. “They must make use of the resources provided to them by the school. Finish the syllabus as early as possible so that when it’s time for the exams you are ready and can just do revision.” Some of the school’s top achievers were Karabo Bopape, Nare Maleka, Mpho Rafoma, Bathabile Kekana, Bridget Mashala, Melita Sehoana, Masehlare Modiba, Happy Zitha, Thato Segolela, Tetelo Chuene, and Madimetja Madiba who all achieved four distinctions or more. Ann Swartz, head of education and academics at Northern Academy, credited the study mechanism they implemented in 2022 for the outstanding results. “We had winter and summer classes to ensure that learners consistently prioritise their work. We created a study schedule which they had to stick to. We also identified the strength of the learners and those that were lacking in other subjects. We stayed with them after school and helped them with their subjects. We made use of old question papers for revision and made sure that resources are available for them to perform their duties.” 